CSO 

  [Text] On 1 February Tokyo Gas Co. announced that in 
cooperation with Mitsubishi Heavy Industries it has developed 
the world's first solid polymer electric fuel cell System 
(SPEFC) that uses city gas for fuel, and it has successfully 
generated 50 kW of power. Tokyo Gas will continue testing and 
research with the goal of practical application by summer 1996. 
In theory, it will be possible for a household to generate its 
own electricity from the city gas supplied to each home. 
  The fuel cell system consists of a hydrogen dissociation 
type 
reformer that directly manufactures very pure hydrogen from city 
gas (natural gas) and a solid polymer fuel cell manufactured by 
Mitsubishi Heavy Industries. The system generates electricity by 
using the very pure hydrogen as fuel. By developing the reformer 
that produces hydrogen from city gas, Tokyo Gas has cleared the 
path toward practical application of a fuel cell system that 
runs on city gas. 
  The newly developed hydrogen dissociation type reformer 
produces hydrogen by: 
  1) Using steam pyrolysis to dissociate city gas, the main 
component of which is methane, 
  2) Using a palladium film to extract only the hydrogen from 
the resulting mix of hydrogen, carbon monoxide and carbon 
dioxide, 
  3) Burning off the remaining substances. 
  The key point in the technology is the fact that researchers 
were able to dramatically increase the efficiency of obtaining 
hydrogen by reducing the thickness of the palladium film through 
which the hydrogen passes to one-fifth its original thickness. 
  The problem in the past has been that a carbon monoxide 
converter and a hydrogen purifier were needed to obtain very 
pure hydrogen, which made the equipment bulky. The reformer, on 
the other hand, is 28 cm in diameter and 1 meter high, which 
makes the system five to ten times smaller. Tokyo Gas is aiming 
for practical application in the 21st century of this new fuel 
cell system that simply uses city gas. 

