BFN 

  [Text] Tallinn, 12 May, BNS -- The Russian side has still 
not announced the date when the dismantling of the nuclear 
reactors in the former Russian naval base in Paldiski is to 
begin, Juri Tikk, the special representative of the government 
in Paldiski, told BNS. 
  Justice Minister Kaido Kama told BNS early in May that the 
dismantling will probably start on 15 May. In accordance with 
the agreed procedure, Russia is supposed to inform the Estonian 
authorities of the starting date a week in advance. Tikk 
declined to confirm or deny the operation going ahead on 15 May. 
  Tikk claimed both parties are prepared to immediately begin 
the dismantling of the reactors. He said, however, that the two 
containers for the removed nuclear fuel have not yet reached 
Paldiski. Still, it is not clear why the Russian side keeps 
putting off the operation, Tikk told BNS. 
  The government allocated earlier this month 1.4 million 
kroons to cover the expenses of the dismantling. Kama said a 
large share of the sum comes from foreign aid contributions made 
specifically for the purpose. 
  A special ministerial commission was formed at the end of 
April to monitor and regulate the removal of the nuclear 
reactors from Paldiski. Earlier the same month the Cabinet 
ruled to enforce a special regime in the Pakri peninsula where 
Paldiski is located for the duration of the dismantling. Also, 
a special rescue unit was formed to ensure safety of the 
operation. 

