BFN 

    [Editorial Report] The following is a compilation of 
reports on drug seizures and arrests related to drug trafficking 
monitored through 31 March. 
<H5>  Argentina </H5>
  Federal Police on 23 March seized 10 kg of high-purity 
cocaine and detained one person in Buenos Aires' Caballito 
District. Police intercepted a car and found 10 neatly wrapped 
packages of cocaine under the rear seat. They also seized 
handguns, blank checks, and stolen identity cards and forged 
documents. (Buenos Aires NOTICIAS ARGENTINAS in Spanish 2243 
GMT 24 Mar 94) 
  About 50 kg of cocaine were confiscated by police in Salta 
Province on 26 March, sources said. The drugs had been 
transferred from neighboring Jujuy Province. (Buenos Aires 
BUENOS AIRES HERALD in English 27 Mar 94 p 4) 
  Nine drug traffickers were detained and 30 kg of cocaine 
seized in four operations during the weekend. The first 
operation was at an apartment near the Argentine Horse Racetrack 
where 25 kg of cocaine and about $40,000 were seized and two 
women and a man were arrested. The second raid was in the 
Palermo District where five forged identity cards, currency, and 
counterfeit money were seized and four people were arrested. 
Another operation also was carried out in Palermo. The last 
operation was in Buenos Aires where 5 kg of cocaine, about 
$50,000, precision scales, and substances to cut drugs were 
seized, and two men were detained. The ringleader, a woman, 
received the drugs from Bolivia and redistributed it to 
wholesalers for sale. (Buenos Aires NOTICIAS ARGENTINAS in 
Spanish 1513 GMT 28 Mar 94) 
  Fourteen kg of cocaine were seized and three Argentines 
detained in two operations this weekend at Ezeiza International 
Airport while checking baggage consigned for Madrid. Five kg of 
cocaine were hidden in six shampoo bottles, and 9 kg of cocaine 
were discovered in packages wrapped as presents. A woman with a 
baby was detained in Pocitos, Salta Province. She carried 2 kg 
of cocaine hidden inside the baby's clothes. (Buenos Aires 
NOTICIAS ARGENTINAS in Spanish 1925 GMT 29 Mar 94) 
  In the Villa Pueyrredon District, Federal Police on 30 March 
detained four Bolivian citizens and seized 5 kg of cocaine. 
(Buenos Aires NOTICIAS ARGENTINAS in Spanish 0132 GMT 30 Mar 94) 
<H5>  Bolivia </H5>
  On 25 March, police intercepted a truck in Cochabamba 
Department carrying 3,080 liters of sulfuric acid, 1,879 liters 
of acetone, 180 liters of ammonia, and 500 kg of sodium 
bicarbonate. (La Paz Television Nacional Network in Spanish 
1700 GMT 29 Mar 94) 
  Major Gonzalo Cuellar Justiniano, commander of Tarija 
Department's Special Antinarcotics Force, FELCN, reported that 
drug trafficking and the entry of precursors have escalated in 
his department, especially in Yacuiba and Bermejo, near the 
border with Argentina. Cuellar has requested the help of the 
Mobile Police Unit for Rural Areas. (La Paz PRESENCIA in 
Spanish 13 Mar 94 p 6) 
  As a result of two FELCN operations, 3,800 liters of 
precursors--including ether, sulfuric acid, ammonia, and 
acetone--were seized in Santa Cruz de la Sierra on 14 March. No 
arrests were made. (Santa Cruz de la Sierra EL MUNDO in Spanish 
15 Mar 94 p 13) 
  Major Armando Pacheco, commander of Chuquisaca Department's 
FELCN, reported that he had information that Sucre allegedly has 
become a bridge in international and domestic drug trafficking. 
Coupled with the fact that drug prices have dropped 
considerably, drug use--especially among students--is increasing 
in Sucre. Marijuana seems to be the drug most accessible to 
students. (La Paz PRESENCIA in Spanish 15 Mar 94 Second Section 
p 3) 
<H5>  Brazil </H5>
  A married Nigerian couple was arrested at Guarulhos Airport, 
Sao Paulo State, on the night of 28 March trying to board a 
plane with 40 kg of cocaine hidden in 18 cans of guava juice. 
(Rio de Janeiro Rede Globo Television in Portuguese 1600 GMT 29 
Mar 94) 
<H5>  Chile </H5>
  Investigative Police and Carabineros seized about 50 kg of 
cocaine in Iquique. Investigative Police detained Orlando 
Herrera Geronimo and Noel Herrera Robino, who had 33 kg of 
cocaine, nine of which were buried in the desert. They 
confessed that they brought the drug from Bolivia after 
contacting Bolivian financiers they identified. During a 
highway check, Iquique Carabineros seized 16 kg of cocaine after 
intercepting a bus from Arica. The drugs were carried by 
Marcelino Mamani and Santiago Carlos Mamani. (Santiago 
Television Nacional de Chile Imagen Internacional in Spanish 
1800 GMT 28 Mar 94) 
  Investigative Police broke up a drug trafficking ring in 
Arica, arresting a Chilean couple that led the ring--Pedro 
Marin, 37, and Lilian Encalada, 47, and five members. Police 
also seized 57 kg of cocaine from Bolivia, three cars, and a 
large amount of money. (Santiago EL MERCURIO in Spanish 20 Mar 
94 p C9) 
<H5>  Peru </H5>
  Thanks to intelligence services information, the Federal 
Police Antidrug Division discovered three companies that 
supplied illegal laboratories with chemical precursors. Among 
those arrested was Mauro Gomez Mendoza, at whose company 2,000 
kg of sulfuric acid were seized. (Lima EL COMERCIO in Spanish 
20 Mar 94 p A16) 
  During an operation at Lima's airport, the Antidrug Division 
seized more than 6 kg of highly pure cocaine hydrochloride on a 
plane that travelled from Tarapoto to Lima, and arrested Maria 
Rogelia Grandez de Paredes, 25, and Carlos Eduardo Paredes 
Polanco, 29, who transported the drugs; and Tulio Francisco 
Paredes Pizarro, 38, and Carlos Italo Rios Ramirez, 26, who were 
waiting for the drugs. (Lima EL COMERCIO in Spanish 20 Mar 94 p 
A15) 
  Police and Army personnel arrested two people on a coach 
bound for Palcazu and seized 15 kg of washed cocaine paste from 
them. They are Proset Romulo Pablo Fuentes, 25, and Caitano 
Alberto Ticse Cruquiyauri, 27. (Lima LA REPUBLICA in Spanish 20 
Mar 94 p 22) 
  Antidrug Division personnel arrested the president of the 
"Boca Manu" peasants community in Nueva Palestina, Madre de 
Dios, for receiving $15,000 from Colombian drug traffickers to 
maintain the local airport. Since November 1993, the local 
airport, which was refurbished with the complicity of local 
authorities, has been used for the landings and takeoffs of 
dozens of light aircraft loaded with drugs. (Lima LA REPUBLICA 
in Spanish 21 Mar 94 p 17) 
  Five kilograms of highly pure cocaine base were seized by 
Fourth Region police from the driver of a bus going from Huari 
Province to Lima. The driver, who was taken into custody, is 
thought to belong to a domestic drug trafficking ring. (Lima LA 
REPUBLICA in Spanish 23 Mar 94 p 11) 
  Army personnel from the Ocopa Port counter-subversive base 
captured 12 members of a gang that supplied precursors to drug 
trafficking rings that operate in the tropical forest near 
Huancayo. (Lima EXPRESO in Spanish 24 Mar 94 p A16) 

