Language: <F P=105> Vietnamese </F>
Article Type:BFN 

<F P=106> [From the Press Review for 25 February] </F>
  [Text] The Journal GIAO DUC THOI DAI carries an article by 
Dang Thi Thanh Huong [Contemporay Education] under the 
headline: "The Brown Fairy in Yen Bai," on Yen Bai Province, 
located adjacent to Lao Cai and Vinh Phu provinces. Six 
different ethnic minority groups make up the population of Yen 
Bai Province. 
  Apart from rare timber, the local people earn their living 
mainly from growing poppy. Because of this, the people are used 
to taking opium and drug addiction has consequently developed at 
an alarming rate. Opium is making its presence increasingly 
felt in Yen Bai and has caused many to succumb to the magic of 
its soothing white smoke. A considerable number of people have 
been reported to have died from severe drug addiction. Not only 
is opium available in the black market, it has also found its 
way into various schools and ranks of government cadres, 
bringing men and also women under its influence. Women are said 
to have passionately turned to this habit to find solace in the 
opium smoke. 
  In 1993, Yen Bai province issued many decrees on measures to 
fight this bad practice. It has invested in drug rehabilitation 
centers and also launched repeated crackdowns on drug addicts. 
However, not much results have been obtained. That is why this 
spring, Yen Bai is still bathed in the ghostly white color of 
the poppy flower. 

