BFN 

  [Text] Concerning the victory of Nelson Mandela's African 
National Congress in the first multiracial elections in the 
Republic of South Africa, Gabonese President Omar Bongo has 
welcomed the openness advocated by Mr. Mandela. Here he is 
speaking to Hassan Nze: 
  [Begin Bongo recording] What is significant is Mandela's 
message, that he wants to rule with all the political parties. 
It is this collegial power structure which Africa lacks. Each 
time there is an election and a gesture is made towards the 
losers, they say: We do not want to do this, we do want to do 
that. I believe that in this instance Mandela is giving an 
example. We must also congratulate de Klerk, who immediately 
acknowledged Mandela's victory and accepted working with him in 
the same government. Honestly, I wish that all Africans could 
behave in the same way, that is to say, as though the country 
belongs to everybody. We must understand that ruling 
single-handedly, ruling without the opposition....[pauses] We 
must understand that those who contest elections and expect 
alternation must join the government, in order to learn how 
things work, so that the day they become president things are 
easier for them. I therefore believe that Mandela and de Klerk 
have just given us -- both governors and opposition leaders -- a 
lesson. Mandela chose to leave the past behind him and not 
exclude whites, he did not seek revenge because he was the 
oldest prisoner, he did not say that he would only govern with 
his party and friends, he reached out to everyone. [end 
recording] 

