BFN 

<F P=106> [Report signed "P.R.": "President Francois Mitterrand Wants </F>
To `Revisit Cancun'"] 
  [Text] Three weeks before the summit of the world's seven 
richest countries (G-7), Francois Mitterrand brought up the idea 
of giving a new impetus to cooperation between rich and poor 
countries, critically reviewing the performance of the 
International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank, which is 
about to celebrate its 50th anniversary. "Development aid must 
be turned into aid that is geared toward the respect of economic 
and social contracts.... What we must do is reinvent the notion 
of international development, with financial austerity being 
only a means to an end, not an end in itself," he said. The 
president suggested that "a new North-South contract" be 
established and that "Cancun should be revisited" (a reference 
to the conference which took place there 13 years ago). Such a 
"contract" would stipulate that rich countries allocate 0.7 
percent of GDP to development aid, an annual amount of $130 
billion, i.e., twice as much as the current amount. The 
president also criticized IMF procedures to allocate special 
drawing rights: "Up to now, in this respect, the IMF has mostly 
been a cash cow for rich countries." He will therefore advocate 
a new $50-billion donation, which he deems possible due to low 
inflationary pressures. 

