BFN 

  [Text] Copenhagen, April 14 (AFP) -- Estonian President 
Lennart Meri called on the international community here Thursday 
[14 April] to support his demands for the "unconditional 
withdrawal" of Russian troops from his country by an August 31 
deadline. 
  Meri told reporters on the last day of his official visit to 
Denmark: "Estonia will do everything humanly possible to make 
sure this deadline, recognised by the international community, 
is respected." 
  He said the Danish government had promised him active 
support 
in his fight for the withdrawal of some 2,700 Russian soldiers 
still stationed in Estonia. 
  Estonia is the last of the three now independent Baltic 
states annexed by Russia in 1940 which has so far failed to 
agree to an end to the Russian military presence there. 
  The last Russian troops left Lithuania last August 31, while 
Latvia in March signed an agreement with Russia for Red Army 
soldiers to leave by August 31 this year. 
  But Estonia saw Russia back off an agreed August 31 deadline 
on April 6 after talks between the two countries deadlocked over 
the status of retired Russian soldiers in the Baltic republic. 
  During his Danish visit, Meri refused to drink champagne 
offered to him at an exhibition opening "so long as the last 
Russian soldiers are on Estonian territory," he said. 
  The Estonian president had talks with Danish Prime Minister 
Poul Nyrup Rasmussen and Foreign Minister Niels Helveg Petersen 
on Thursday. 
  Meri said he expected his country to follow other East 
European countries by signing a free trade agreement or an 
association agreement with the European Union in June, which 
would come into force on January 1, 1995. 

