Language: <F P=105> Russian </F>
Article Type:BFN 

<F P=106> [From the "Vesti" newscast] </F>
  [Excerpts] [Studio announcer] Mystery continues to surround 
the story of the suicide of Zviad Gamsakhurdia. The Georgian 
leadership is not cofirming or denying these reports. [passage 
omitted] 
  [Correspondent N.Kandiashvili] Where does the reality about 
Gamsakhurdia lie, among the hundreds of different versions of 
his death? [passage omitted -- a Chechen delegation told 
Shevardnadze of the death] 
  Regarding the rumors that he was surrounded by armed 
Georgian 
units and forced to shoot himself, in a special interview for 
"Vesti," Eduard Shevardnadze said today: 
  [Begin Shevardnadze recording] I categorically deny this 
because we did not plan any military operations, and there was 
no such pursuit. And there was no need for such a thing since 
we considered and we still consider that he is not a serious 
political force. And if indeed he has been killed or has 
committed suicide, I am sincerely hurt. [end recording] 
  [Studio announcer] Gamsakhurdia's representative in Spain, 
(Zhordani), has stated that the former president of Georgia is 
still alive. Zhordani claims that the suicide reports are aimed 
at bringing Gamsakhurdia out of his refuge in Georgia in order 
to arrest him. 
  Valeriya Novodvorskaya, adviser to Zviad Gamsakhurdia, 
expressed her opinion today. 
  [Begin Novodvorskaya recording] I can state quite positively 
that nothing has happened yet. The president of Georgia is 
still alive. We are in constant contact with the president. 
Everyone who knows Zviad can only deride the story about the 
suicide of a deeply religious Christian and a man who bears 
responsibility for his cause and for his country. [end 
recording] 

