BFN 

  [Text] Pyongyang, April 11 (KCNA) -- Yi In-mo, a former war 
correspondent of the Korean People's Army known as the 
incarnation of faith and will, who had been returned to the 
socialist motherland, sent letters to his friends in South Korea 
who had treated and looked after him like their own flesh and 
blood. 
  The letters were sent to Kim Sang-won and his wife in Kimhae 
County, South Kyongsang Province, who had brought home and taken 
a warm care of Yi In-mo when he had been living a hard life at a 
home for the aged, with his both arms and legs unable to move 
freely due to cruel tortures by fascist hangmen, and to Sin 
Chun-yong, a journalist of the magazine MAL, who had actively 
encouraged him in his writing of memoirs and edited his script, 
and to women Christians Pak Hong-cha and Yi Mi-sun who had 
rendered both material and moral aid to Yi In-mo until his 
return to the socialist motherland from the time he was 
suffering in prison, and to So Chun-sik, an unconverted 
long-term prisoner, who had fought together with him in prison, 
and to Yim Su-kyong, who had called on Yi In-mo to encourage him 
with ardent aspirations for the country's reunification. 
  Yi in the letters expressed thanks to them for their sincere 
help during his 34 year-long prison life and lonely life 
thereafter in South Korea, inquired after their health and wrote 
that he, a sick man unable to move around freely then, had 
completely recovered his health under the warm care of the DPRK 
and now enjoys a happy time with his family. 

