BFN 

<F P=106> [By Y. C. Tsai] </F>
  [Text] Taipei, May 31 (CNA) -- Sun Ming-hsien, chairman of 
the Council of Agriculture (COA), will visit the United States 
in late July to talk with American officials on trade sanctions 
against Taiwan for illegal rhino horn and tiger bone trade, 
council officials said Tuesday [31 May]. 
  The COA head will meet with officials of the US Department 
of 
the Interior and some wildlife conservation groups, the 
officials said [words indistinct]. 
  While Taiwan is set to face US import prohibitions on 
wildlife specimens and products, they noted, it is hoped that 
the United States will shorten the sanction period. 
  The office of US Trade Representative released a list of 
proposed import bans on Taiwan wildlife products in late April 
following an order by President Bill Clinton earlier that month. 
  The import bans, which are mandated under the Pelly 
amendment 
to the Fishermen's Protective Act of 1967, are expected to be 
put into practice in mid-June. 
  Taiwan products targeted for US import prohibition include 
shoes and handbags made from reptile skins, jewelry made from 
coral, mussel shells and bones, edible frogs' legs, live 
goldfish and tropical fish for the aquarium trade, and bird 
feathers. 
  The COA officials held optimistic views about a shorter 
sanction period, saying the prospect will be better if the 
legislature passes a series of amendments to the wildlife 
conservation act by the end of June. 
  Sun is currently accompanying Premier Lien Chan on a visit 
to 
El Salvador and Guatemala. 

