Language: <F P=105> Kazakh </F>
Article Type:CSO 

<F P=106> [Article by Yerlan Arynov, deputy director of the Republic </F>
of Kazakhstan Strategic Research Institute under the Republic 
president, candidate in economic science: "The Kazakh Diaspora 
in Mongolia."] 
  [Text] The Republic of Kazakhstan Strategic Research 
Institute under the Republic president carried out a survey in 
1992 for the purposes of investigating the social [and] living 
conditions of the Kazakh population of diaspora living in 
Bayan-Ologey Aymag in the Mongolian Republic. Presently we are 
offering an article based upon that research by Yerlan Arynov, 
deputy director of the institute, candidate in economic 
science. 
  The surface area of Bayan-Ologey Aymag, formed in 1940, is 
45,800 square km. The aymag comprises 2.9 percent of the 
territory of the Mongolian Republic. The aymag consists of 13 
territorial administrations. The aymag center is the settlement 
of Bayan Ologey. One third of the population of the aymag lives 
in the settlement. 
  According to 1992 figures, the population of the aymag had 
reached 102,800 persons. This was 4.6 percent of the total 
population of the Republic. The growth rate of the aymags was 
0.37 percent above the overall level of Republic. For that 
reason, the median age of the population of the aymag is. [sic] 
During recent years the growth rate has fallen considerably. 
Whereas in 1990 annual growth reached 6,600 persons (7.2 
percent), it declined to 4,700 persons in 1991 (4.6 percent). 
Having a great influence on this was the migration of Kazakhs 
living in the aymag to their homeland, to Kazakhstan. 
  In general, for every 100 persons working there were, by 
contrast, 106 persons not fit for work in Mongolia in 1991. The 
figure reached 111 in the aymag. Whereas some 79.5 percent 
(37,400) of the inhabitants of Bayan-Ologey Aymag worked in 
various sectors of the economy, 20.5 percent (9,600) were 
unemployed. Some 2,100 of them were unemployed for specific 
reasons. 
  Looking at the economy of the aymag, animal husbandry is the 
primary focus there. According to figures for the beginning of 
1992, livestock numbered 1,158,300 with 68.0 percent of them in 
private hands. Almost 60 percent of the livestock were over 
three years old, and more than half of them are of the Kazakh 
Yedilbay breed. In the oblast at present are 11 economic unions 
(in Mongolian: somon), one state enterprise, and two enterprises 
processing agricultural products. The state enterprise mentioned 
controls a territory of 4,400 hectares, and produces annually 
800 tons of grain, 4,900 tons of potatoes, and 2,000 tons of 
fruits, berries and vegetables, etc. Some 17,300 persons work in 
that sector. 
  Operating in the aymag are a united energy industry (18.0 
million kilowatt hours of electrical energy and 116.0 
kilocalories of [thermal] energy), a coal mine (producing 
192,000 tons of coal), a food industry combine, a printing plant 
(producing 5.0 million printed pages), a wool-washing plant 
(washing 2,200 tons of wool), a rug-weaving unit (weaving 6,200 
square meters of carpet), a tungsten ore refining plant, and a 
construction trust. Whereas 2,400 persons work in the industrial 
sector (9.6 percent), 5,200 work in other production sectors 
(20.8 percent). 
  Some 9,300 persons serve in nonproducing sectors. They 
include: 3,800 persons (40.8 percent) in culture, education, and 
the arts; 2,600 persons (27.9 percent) in public health and 
physical education; 2,300 persons (24.7 percent) in domestic 
services and residential housing enterprise organizations; some 
100 persons (1.1 percent) in the sciences. 
  It must be mentioned that there were 2,300 persons (2.2 
percent) in the aymag in 1991 with higher educations; 39,500 
persons (38.4 percent) with general secondary educations. Among 
persons with an education: 28.6 percent had a primary school 
education; 37.7 percent had an incomplete middle education; 17.2 
percent had a complete middle education; 10.6 percent had a 
professional-technical or middle specialized education; and 5.8 
percent had a higher education. 
  In connection with the gradual entry of marketplace 
relations 
into the country in recent years, new professionals working in 
cooperate and small industries have begun to appear. In 1991 
there were 2,200 such professionals, that is 5.9 percent of the 
total population. 
  Let us look at the results of the social survey carried out 
among the Kazakhs of the Kazakh diaspora in Mongolia. A total of 
354 answers were received from questionnaires about present 
social and domestic circumstances, attitudes towards marketplace 
relationships, and intentions to return to the Kazakhstan 
homeland. Some 76 percent of those filling out the 
questionnaires were men and 22.6 percent women. As for the ages 
of respondents, 92.6 percent were between the ages of 16 and 54. 
  According to statistical information for 1991, 45.7 percent 
of the population of Bayan-Ologey was of work age, and 5.5 
percent were pensioners. A very large demographic group within 
the population was comprised of young people under 16 
years-of-age (48.8 percent). 
  For that reason views on social life and livelihood among 
Kazakhs living in Mongolia, and their intentions of returning to 
their homeland were primarily taken from the age group 
indicated. Let us first look at the possibilities for livelihood 
and at the average monthly salary of each family: 33.9 percent 
received 200-1000 tugriks [a month]; 51.1 percent received 
1001-2000 tugriks; 10.7 percent received 2001-3000 tugriks; 2.3 
percent received more than 3000 tugriks. 
  It turned out that more than half of respondents received 
1001-2000 tugriks. Income by families is as follows: 25.4 
percent, 200-1000 tugriks; 53.1 percent, 201-700 tugriks; 16.7 
percent, 701-1500 tugriks. [sic] There is no information for 
those families receiving more than 1500 tugriks. Such levels of 
income cannot guarantee a good life-style for 74.0 percent of 
families. For that reason, they cannot meet their daily family 
expenses unless they sell [their] valuable [personal] goods. 
  At the time of the survey, unfortunately, nothing was 
recorded about supplementary sources of income. Almost 16.7 
percent of respondents had savings, even if small, and did not 
need to sell valuables. Only 1.7 percent of respondents 
indicated that they could buy expensive goods, including 
automobiles. 
  The vast majority of those answering the questionnaire 
thought that the service sector of the aymag was poor. If we 
break this down into percentages: 50.0 percent of respondents 
were dissatisfied with stores selling goods produced by 
industry; 50.5 percent with food stores; 46.1 percent with 
transport; 41.2 percent with social food services centers; 40.4 
percent with trade; and 40.1 percent of the people were 
dissatisfied with the services of residential housing communal 
enterprises. It is not difficult to understand from the replies 
that the conclusion is that service in service establishments is 
at a very low level. On the other hand, 86.4 percent of 
respondents gave a favorable evaluation to childrens 
organizations, i.e., kindergarten; 88.7 percent to medical 
organizations; and 74.7 percent to cultural centers. 
  However, respondents in general had a great deal of hope in 
the improvement of their present living conditions. While 7.3 
percent of respondents said they considered themselves average 
as far as material well-being, 17.0 considered themselves good. 
Only a portion of this group answered poor. The quality of food 
in comparison to the quality of clothing appeared to have 
improved two-fold recently in the view of those responding. 
  Thus, can we not understand from this information the Kazakh 
custom of putting a good face on any bad situation, no matter 
how bad it is. In research on living standards, carried out in 
terms of three variants, poor, average, good, the vast majority 
of the people said good. Let us look into this. 
  Some 85.3 percent of respondents expressed satisfaction with 
relations with their fellow employees; 61.3 percent with their 
health; 59.3 percent with their work assignments; 50.6 percent 
with the work they were doing; 62.4 percent with their 
specialties; 68.7 percent with conditions in their social lives; 
and 49.7 percent with housing. Those dissatisfied with their 
lives were around 1.7 percent. 
  Now, what were respondents concerned about? They were 
dissatisfied with their wages (poor, 19.2 percent, good, 11.3 
percent), their vacations (poor, 13.3 percent, good, 22.3 
percent), and poor use of free time (poor, 15.5 percent, good, 
22.3 percent). Summarizing these results, the problem is the 
poor living conditions of families and the poor organization of 
proper vacations. 
  Asked whether or not the work of social services 
organizations had improved fundamentally during the last 
four-five years, most answered no. It was easily ascertained 
that there is a shortage of goods in high demand (90.7 percent), 
that there are transportation problems (81.6 percent), that the 
quality of medical service is poor (64.7 percent), and, 
likewise, that the quality of work in the cultural 
establishments is poor (69.2 percent). By way of compensation, 
the number of trade industries and cooperatives has grown in 
accordance with market reform. 
  Inhabitants of the aymag gave the following answers 
regarding 
where they get their clothing and food. It was hard to determine 
a clear response. Considerable confusion was found in the of 
purchase of the above goods. Some 26.6 percent made their own 
clothing; 25.4 percent bought their clothing in the public 
market; and 14.4 percent bought it in stores. 
  Half of respondents made it clear that, while they obtained 
foods like meat and milk from relatives or from individual 
enterprises, they purchased vegetables, fruits and berries, 
break, and fish only from stores. This must be because such 
varieties of food are not plentiful in Mongolia. 
  All in all, many respondents felt that the of supply of food 
at present was average or bad. If we rely upon answers from the 
heads of Kazakh families living in Mongolia to questions about 
their basic interests and desires to migrate to their homeland, 
8.5 percent said they were preparing to move back to their 
native soil. Some 58.8 percent said they would come in 1993; 
however, 34.5 percent said they will migrate in the next two 
years. It was clear that while 85.3 percent would migrate to 
Kazakhstan with their entire families, 4.0 percent would come on 
their own. 
  Let us now touch upon the question of which oblast in 
Kazakhstan our kinsmen in Mongolia would likely migrate to. Some 
22.3 percent of the heads of the families would make Eastern 
Kazakhshtan Oblast their new home; 17.8 percent, Qaraghandy 
Oblast; 10.7 percent, Almaty Oblast; 7.0 percent, Almaty City; 
9.0 percent, Koshetaw Oblast; 5.6 percent, Qostanay Oblast. Only 
a very small part of them would migrate to Atyraw, Torghay, 
Qyzylorda, Aqtobe, and Aqmola oblasts. 
  Kazakhs from the diaspora in Mongolia are considering 
migration to oblasts where they will no doubt have a very 
favorable influence on the growth of the Kazakh demography of 
those oblasts and upon the formation of a linguistic 
environment. For that reason the state must do everything 
possible for them. 
  Some 30.5 percent of those preparing to return to the 
homeland are considering settlement in rural areas; 48.9 percent 
in cities. Among those planning to live a city, 7.1 percent plan 
to live in the capital. 
  Barriers to migration: 28.0 percent said they were 
influenced 
by material difficulties, 23.5 percent by differences in law, 
and 15 percent by Republic political problems. 
  While 44.1 percent of respondents expected to purchase state 
apartments or houses immediately after migrating, 13.8 percent 
expected to live with relatives. While 87 percent of them would 
rely on material aid provided by the state, only 5.4 percent 
expressed confidence in their own resources and funding. 
  As the results of the survey show, the great hope of the 
overwhelming majority is to return to the homeland and to live 
there, developing their language and religion. Thus, the 
generations of a sovereign nation will increase. In particular, 
it is a source of joy that they have chosen regions where 
Russian-speakers are concentrated. However, like the saying a 
dry spoon tears the mouth [i.e., there are good and bad aspects 
to things], we should not forget that only 5.4 percent of 
respondents place confidence in their own finances. The rest 
expect aid from the state. Whereas only 16.8 percent plan to buy 
housing immediately, 13.8 percent will continue to live with 
relatives. For that reason, bearing in mind the fact that 
Kazakhs of the diaspora in Mongolia are poorly provided for 
materially, we must make special efforts when material 
assistance is organized through state and social organizations. 
We must devote attention to learning the native Kazakh language 
and to the consolidation of a linguistic environment. This is 
because the number of Kazakh people in the regions of Kazakhstan 
is low. For example, according to 1989 figures 27.2 percent of 
the people in Eastern Kazakhstan Oblast are Kazakh, 17.2 percent 
of the people in Qaraghandy Oblast are Kazakh, and the 
representatives of the Russian people 52.2 percent [sic]. This 
being the case, we must not forget that 22.3 and 17.2 percent 
respectively [of Mongolian Kazakhs wishing to migrate] have 
expressed an interest in settling in these oblasts. If the 
entire Kazakh population of Mongolia were to migrate, there is 
no question that this would lead to a radical change in the 
national demography of Kazakhstan. The reason is that the vast 
majority of them are large families. We must not forget that in 
nearly 60 percent of the families there are more than three 
children. 

