Language: <F P=105> German </F>
Article Type:BFN 

<F P=106> [Unattributed report: "Half A Million A Day"] </F>
  [Text] Even after it was banned, the left-wing extremist 
"Workers Party of Kurdistan" (PKK) continues its activities in 
Germany: Turkish business people and asylum-seekers of Kurdish 
descent are forced to provide financial support for the PKK 
guerrilla fight against the Turkish state. According to 
information received by the Federal Office of Criminal 
Investigations [BKA], the PKK wants to collect 500,000 German 
marks [DM] a day in Germany. 
  More and more victims defend themselves: Since the PKK was 
banned in November 1993, the BKA has registered an increase in 
charges filed against those who extort "donations." A total of 
100 cases became public last year, while police are expecting 
significantly more in 1994. Numerous Turks who have been 
exposed to PKK extortion are taking advantage of special 
telephone lines by which they can also provide anonymous 
information. In large cities such as Berlin, Cologne, 
Frankfurt, or Dortmund, police are carrying out investigations 
through special PKK commissions. 
  The brutality of the PKK thugs is reflected in recent cases 
from the files of the investigators: Three men armed with 
handguns beat up a Kurdish asylum-seeker in the Swabian city of 
Schorndorf because he refused to donate. In Dunningen 
(Baden-Wuerttemberg), four PKK men with wooden sticks attacked a 
Kurd for refusing to "donate" DM1,000 a month. In 
Swisttal-Odendorff (North Rhine-Westphalia), one Kurd got a 
thrashing even though he had delivered DM1,200 to Bonn's 
Kurdistan Center before. The PKK thought the amount was too low. 

