Language: <F P=105> Japanese </F>
Article Type:CSO 

<F P=106> [Part 3 of 4-part article on Nuclear Power White Paper's </F>
focus on nuclear fuel recycling] 
  [Text] The trend of R&amp;D policies of foreign countries 
is a 
matter of concern in relation to Japan's work on development of 
nuclear fuel recycling. This year's White Paper analyzes in 
greater detail than in normal years the trends in other 
countries, and acknowledges that there are adverse factors 
affecting development all over the world, stating that ``In some 
countries, nuclear fuel recycling activities are tending to slow 
down due to loose supply and demand of uranium or fiscal 
circumstances.'' 
  In the midst of this, Japan is counting on France to be the 
leader in development of nuclear fuel recycling. The French 
demonstration fast breeder reactor (FBR) ``Super Phoenix'' 
ceased operation in 1990 because of problems, but in September 
1993, the public hearing committee, which has been studying the 
safety or the reactor, issued a report that supported 
recommencing operation with the proviso that new countermeasures 
be taken to prevent the danger of natrium fires. 
  Therefore, procedures have begun to resume operation around 
next summer. The emphasis of research is expected to shift from 
plutonium breeding to plutonium and TRU annihilation disposal, 
and this is likely to affect Japan's FBR development. 
  R&amp;D in Great Britain and Germany, influential 
proponents of 
nuclear fuel recycling, has slowed down markedly. In December 
1992, Great Britain decided to terminate operation of the 
``PFR'' prototype FBR in 1994 for economic reasons. Germany cut 
short its ``SNR-300'' prototype FBR project just before it 
became operational for political reasons. 
  The White Paper's analysis of these events was that ``These 
countries already have accumulated the results of developing FBR 
technology and are holding back on further investment of 
funding.'' It seems to want to say that there still is a gap 
between Japan and Europe in FBR technology and continuing to 
pursue FBR development would by no means put Japan far ahead of 
Europe. 
  In Great Britain, the Thorpe Reprocessing Plant, which has 
been contracted by Japanese electric power companies to 
reprocess spent fuel, still is unable to begin operation because 
of opposition by the environmental protection group Greenpeace. 
In Germany as well, the Siemens uranium-plutonium mixed oxide 
(MOX) fuel plant cannot operate because of political reasons. 
  On the other hand, although the United States abandoned 
commercial reprocessing and other forms of nuclear fuel 
recycling when the Carter Administration strengthened the U.S. 
non-proliferation policy in the 1970s, it has continued 
technological development of ``ALMR,'' a fast reactor that uses 
metallic fuel. 
  However, the U.S. non-proliferation policy statement that 
was 
issued in September clearly states that ``The United States will 
not promote civilian use of plutonium.'' The White Paper also 
concludes that the United States is ``negative about FBRs, 
judging from its budgetary measures.'' 

