System 

<F P=102>   94P60121C Beijing ZHONGGUO YIXUE LUNTAN BAO [CHINA MEDICAL 
TRIBUNE] in Chinese Vol 19 No 47, Dec 93 p 1 </F>

<F P=103> 94P60121C </F>
<F P=104>  Beijing ZHONGGUO YIXUE LUNTAN BAO [CHINA MEDICAL 
TRIBUNE] </F>

<F P=105>  Chinese </F>
CSO 

<F P=106> [Article by Yao Haijian [1202 3189 1696]] </F>
  [Summary] Research fellows Cao Xu [2580 2485] and Ruan Li 
[7086 0500] at the Virology Department of the Chinese Academy of 
Preventive Medicine have constructed a complete gene expression 
system from the Chinese-developed Tian Tan strain vaccinia 
virus. First the team identified four different promoters from 
Tian Tan strain vaccinia, artificially synthesized one promoter, 
and studied the two genes, thymidylic acid kinase and the 
beta-galactosidase, that can be used as selecting markers for 
vaccinia research, and then constructed a Tian Tan strain 
recombinant vaccinia virus vector system that contains 13 gene 
expression vectors, two selecting marker vectors, and one 
promoter screening vector. The system has been widely used in 
China to express more than 30 important viral antigens and many 
immune-activity polypeptides including hepatitis A, hepatitis B, 
Epstein-Bar (EB), Herpes simplex, epidemic hemorrhagic fever 
(EHF), respiratory tract plasmodia, measles, rabbies, 
cytomegalovirus, interleukin II, human aggregation growth 
factor, and tumor necrosis factor. Three live vaccines 
(hepatitis A, hepatitis B, and EB) that were developed from 
recombinant vaccinia virus were just put into clinical trial and 
clinical observation. Chinese researchers also succeeded in 
developing multivalent recombinant vaccinia virus that can 
express two, three, or four different exogenous genes at the 
same time. The construction of Tian Tan vaccinia vector system 
has provided a complete gene expression system for developing 
monovalent and multivalent genetic engineering live vaccines. 

