Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:CSO 

  [Text] The construction of a fast-breeder reactor is likely 
to begin early next century instead of in the late 1990s as 
originally planned, Kohei Abe, head of the Federation of 
Electric Power Companies, announced at a press conference last 
week. 
  A fast-breeder reactor, which can turn spent uranium into 
usable plutonium while producing electricity, is one of the core 
facilities for nuclear-fuel recycling. 
  The postponement is partly a reflection of the increasingly 
cautious attitude toward the use of plutonium among Western 
nations, including the U.S., Britain, Germany, and France, which 
have already suspended research into this new type of reactor, 
experts said. 
  A further factor in the delay is that the project will cost 
1.5 times as much as the construction of a light-water reactor, 
which can generate the same amount of electricity, officials 
said. Also, the construction will be time-consuming. 
  The planned reactor, designed to generate 670,000kw of 
electricity, is intended to be a follow-up to the Monju 
fast-breeder reactor in Fukui Prefecture. Power Reactor and 
Nuclear Fuel Development Corp. is preparing to put Monju into 
full operation with an output capacity of 280,000kw. 
  The federation has set up a panel comprised of senior 
officials of nine electric power companies to discuss the timing 
of the building of the new reactor. In an interim report, the 
panel decided to propose that the construction be postponed. 

