BFN 

  [Text] Prague June 15 (CTK) -- "Before the country split 
up on January 1, 1993, the Czechoslovak arms industry was 
conceived as a single unit," Andrej Sabol, Slovak State 
Secretary for Defence says in an interview published in the 
Czech financial daily HOSPODARSKE NOVINY today. 
  "The situation altered with the split but even so, it would 
not make sense if the Czech Republic and Slovakia went to third 
countries in search of products that can be produced locally and 
more economically. An eventual agreement hinges on a mutually 
profitable trade deal. Both countries are interested in 
producing arms because of their revenue-raising potential and 
continued world demand for them," Sabol says. 
  As a result of the conversion, the Slovak arms industry now 
works at about eight percent of its original capacity. 
  "We do not want to expand up to the former levels but we may 
consider supplying armies whose specifications are similar to 
ours. Or maybe we could concentrate on upgrading military 
equipment produced in the former Warsaw Pact countries." 
"Another possibility might be the purchase of expensive Western 
technology," Sabol says, adding however that the willingness for 
actual cooperation between Czechs and Slovaks remains to be 
tested. 
  "On inspecting the modernised Czech and Slovak versions of 
tank and talking with experts at the recent IDET 94 military 
technology fair in Brno I felt sure that both sides would profit 
from joining their efforts," Sabol says in the paper, adding 
that both versions could be improved even more if tackled 
jointly. The Slovak version of the T-72 tank was well received 
abroad. 

