BFN 

  [Text] Tallinn, May 23, BNS -- World Bank officials at the 
recent seminar in Paris on Baltic states' economics advised 
Estonia to step up state investments to promote economic growth, 
the Finance Ministry press service told BNS. 
  The meeting in Paris noted that in the process of economic 
stabilization state investments have substantially decreased. 
  A three-year, 4.8-billion-kroon investment program suggested 
by the World Bank would keep Estonia's foreign debt at a 
moderate, manageable level, taking into account the credits 
already extended to the country. The program proposes that 2.1 
billion kroons should come from the state budget. 
  The World Bank conference on the Baltic states' economies 
devoted one day, May 20, to Estonia. Representatives of the 
Estonian delegation, the World Bank, the International Monetary 
Fund and the European Union evaluated the development of the 
country's economy to date and its investment plans, and meetings 
of working groups in the spheres of energy, transportation and 
environment took place. Donor states and organizations reported 
on their aid programs. The day before, on May 19, the Estonian 
delegation held negotiations with German, Japanese and Swiss 
delegations. 
  The conference passed in a businesslike, friendly 
atmosphere. 
Estonian economic reforms were repeatedly praised. The goal of 
the meeting was neither discussion and approval of concrete 
projects nor extraction of promises from donors but, rather, the 
fashioning of general attitudes. It is clear that planning of 
centrally coordinated investments ensures the best possible 
representation of all interests in terms of both economic 
efficiency and social justice, the Finance Ministry press 
service informs. 

