BFN 

  [Text] Tehran, June 25 (AFP) -- Iraq was behind the bloody 
bomb attack in a holy shrine in Iran which killed at least 24 
people and wounded dozens, the semi-official TEHRAN TIMES 
charged Saturday [25 June]. 
  "It is unimaginable (to think) that the terrorists group 
could have undertaken such a heinous act without first having 
cleared it through the Iraqi intelligence authorities," the 
English-language newspaper said. 
  It was referring to the main armed rebel group, the People's 
Mojahedin, accused by Iran of Monday's [20 June] attack in the 
shrine of Imam Reza in the northeastern city of Mashhad. The 
Mojahedin have strongly denied any involvement. 
  The daily accused Baghdad of "commissioning" the Iraq-based 
Mojahedin to "plant the bomb in the holiest site in Iran." The 
Mojahedin "could have obtained such a bomb only from the Iraqi 
security forces," it said, referring to the 4.5 kilogram (10 
pound) device. 
  The Interior Ministry said 24 were killed and 70 injured, 
while the official IRNA news agency said 26 had died and 170 
others wounded. 
  Iran on Thursday [23 June] indefinitely postponed a visit to 
Iraq by a Foreign Ministry delegation in protest at Baghdad's 
support for the Mojahedin. The visit was to continue 
discussions on normalising ties five years after the end of the 
1980-1988 Iran-Iraq war. Talks resumed last October after they 
were broken in the wake of the Gulf war. 
  Tehran has also accused Baghdad of encouraging the Mojahedin 
to carry out sabotage activities inside Iran and the Iraqi 
intelligence service of being directly involved in bomb attacks 
here. 
  Iranian Intelligence Minister 'Ali Fallahian said earlier 
this month that two high-ranking Iraqi officers were arrested 
for smuggling explosives to Iran and planning bomb attacks. 

