BFN 

  [Text] Bratislava, May 2 (CTK) -- A Czech-Slovak agreement 
on military cooperation was signed today by the two countries' 
defense ministers, Antonin Baudys and Pavol Kanis. "The 
document concerns all fields of armed forces activity and is 
more detailed than similar agreements with other neighbors," 
Baudys told journalists after the ceremony. "Relations between 
the Czech Republic and Slovakia will always be of more 
importance than with other countries," he said. 
  Kanis voiced the conviction that in the two countries' armed 
forces there were only few supporters of the idea that the 
common Czech-Slovak border should become also a geo-political 
border. "Our countries are heading for European security 
structures and in this our interests are similar," Baudys said. 
  Both ministers expressed the determination to settle as soon 
as possible "open" questions in the division of the former 
Czechoslovakia's federal property. "There still exist some 
unsolved property claims which are being decided gradually," 
Baudys told CTK. He added, however, that he could not say when 
these problems would be solved, especially the problem of the 
division of the archives of intelligence services. 
  Baudys described his meeting with Kanis as important not 
only 
because the agreement was signed but also because talks on 
European security, the Partnership for Peace initiative and 
other questions concerning Czech-Slovak cooperation were 
discussed. 
  Simultaneously with talks between Baudys and Kanis 
discussions of the two countries' army representatives were 
held. Baudys will end his visit to Slovakia today. 

