BFN 

<F P=106> [Interview with Nabih Birri, speaker of the Lebanese Chamber </F>
of Deputies, by Salim 'Ali Dhiyab, in Amman on 17 April -- 
recorded] 
  [Text] [Dhiyab] Mr. Speaker, how would you describe your 
meeting with his majesty the king? 
  [Birri] In fact, I have had the honor today, as you know, of 
meeting with his majesty the king. This meeting was amicable, 
open, and deep, in which we discussed most issues and 
developments in the Arab, regional, and international arenas. 
Emphasis was placed on the pressures that sisterly Jordan is 
facing, and the military pressure to which Lebanon is subjected 
in its southern areas and in the western Biqa', and the brutal 
shelling that is taking place daily against our kinsfolk the 
civilians there. His majesty believes--and he is right in 
this--that these pressures are similar, and what is wanted from 
Jordan, Syria, and Lebanon is for them to deal separately with 
Israel and then to sign agreements with the Israeli enemy 
without consulting the other parties. This would wastes what is 
left of Arab rights. His majesty the king is determined and 
insistent in his position, which is the position of just and 
comprehensive peace. He hopes that all Arab countries will 
coordinate and will maintain solidarity, especially between 
Lebanon, Syria, and Jordan. 
  [Dhiyab] Mr. Speaker, in light of the size of these 
pressures 
on Jordan and Lebanon, what is required on the Arab level? 
  [Birri] In fact, at a minimum we need a unified Arab 
position 
that supports the cordon states. Regrettably, as you know, the 
Arab situation is divided. What is required is the restoration 
of Arab solidarity by any means, even if this solidarity takes 
the shape of coordination. We will continue to discuss this 
subject in the meetings with his highness the crown prince in 
order to reach a formula for a specific move in this direction. 

