93  pp 
290-296 
<F P=103> 40091007D </F>
<F P=104>  Beijing HANGTIAN YIXUE YU YIXUE GONGCHENG [SPACE 
MEDICINE &amp; MEDICAL ENGINEERING] </F>

<F P=105>  Chinese </F>
CSO 

<F P=106> [English abstract of article by Zhang Ruijun [1728 3843 </F>
6874], Yang Guanghua [2799 0342 5478], et al. of the Institute 
of Space Medico-Engineering, Beijing] 
  [Text] This paper summarized the results of treatment of 
depression syndrome caused by microwave, irradiation, noise or 
side effects of anti-cancer drugs with Chinese herb-compounds. 
Chinese herb-compound, containing Huangqui (Radix astragali), 
Ciwujia (Acan thopanax Senticosus), etc. was administered by 
mouth to the patients and mice exposed to microwave, radiation 
or chemotherapy with anti-cancer drugs. Mice exposed to noise 
were treated with herb-compound containing panax ginseng and 
Linguisticum chuanxiong. Both Chinese herb-compounds have the 
same tonic character. The results in patients showed reduction 
of patient's complaints, increase of WBC and thrombocyte count, 
and recovery of immune function. All of the changes were 
significant. Increase of WBC and thrombocyte count, recovery of 
immune function, increase of corticosterone and serotonin 
content in blood, cerebrum and spleen were also found to be 
significant in mice treated with Chinese herb-compound as 
compared with the control mice. Improvement of many 
physiological functions in the whole body after treatment with 
Chinese herb-compounds of the same tonic character suggested 
that, different adverse environmental factors may cause same 
general reaction, the general depression syndrome, which has 
been described in our previous paper. 
  Key words: depression syndrome, hematopoietic, immunity, 
serotonin, Chinese medical herbs. 

