Language: <F P=105> Russian </F>
Article Type:CSO 

<F P=106> [Article by Gamlet Matevosyan, Yerevan: "Yesterday a </F>
Presidential Candidate, Today Under Investigation"] 
  [Text] The Supreme Soviet of Armenia almost unanimously 
gave its consent to the institution of criminal proceedings 
against Myasnik Akopyan, president of the republic's Union of 
Entrepreneurs, Lessees, and Cooperative Workers. He is accused 
of appropriating state funds in especially large amounts. 
  According to the statement by Artavazd Gevorkyan, 
procurator-general of the Republic of Armenia, the director of 
the Union of Entrepreneurs, who at one time put forward his 
candidacy for the post of Armenia's president, through 
machinations and forgeries appropriated more than 34 million 
rubles. 
  The parliament's consent to the institution of criminal 
proceedings against Akopyan was needed in connection with the 
fact that he was put forward as a candidate for deputy of the 
Supreme Soviet. 
  Myasnik Akopyan is known in the republic for his extravagant 
escapades. Two years ago he was about to violate state monopoly 
on the issue of money. Akopyan intended to make his own coupons 
and even began to print them. According to him, the coupons were 
supposed to create competition for the state monetary unit (at 
that time the ruble) and in time even to displace it. At that 
time Meruzhan Mikayelyan, former chief of the Currency 
Administration of the republic's Ministry of Finance, called 
that venture a joke and a highly shady operation. 
  As we see, the fantasies of trickster Akopyan took him far 
away. 

