Language: <F P=105> Mandarin </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] In 1993, Hainan reached encouraging achievements in 
reform, opening up, and economic construction. On the basis of 
the previous year's speedy development, the province's economy 
showed a fast and good development trend. According to the 
relevant statistics, comparatively good development was made in 
the province's production, circulation, finances, banking, 
foreign trade, and tourism. The main economic indices met the 
demands of the Eighth Five-Year Plan and were higher than the 
country's average and the province's average since the 
establishment of Hainan Province. 
  The gross domestic product was estimated at 19.17 billion 
yuan, an increase of 18.9 percent over the previous year as 
calculated according to comparable prices; the gross industrial 
output value was estimated at 9.3 billion yuan, an increase of 
28.9 percent over the previous year. Major industrial products 
increased by a wide margin. Economic results of industrial 
enterprises improved markedly. The gross agricultural output 
value amounted to [words indistinct] despite a decrease in grain 
production. In the course of adjusting the investment structure 
and strengthening macrocontrol and regulation, investment in 
fixed assets in the entire society amounted to 13.5 billion 
yuan, an increase of 55.1 percent, [words indistinct] being the 
best year since the founding of Hainan Province. 

