BFN 

<F P=106> [``Exclusive'' interview with Hasan Dag, head of the </F>
National Liberation Front of Kurdistan (ERNK) in Athens, by Dina 
Vayena; date not given] 
  [Excerpts] ``Last year's campaign against Turkish tourism 
was only a warning. The true campaign will begin this year and 
will take on the characteristics of war.'' 
  Hasan Dag (``Dag'' means mountain), head of the National 
Liberation Front of Kurdistan (ERNK) office in Athens, speaks 
with the same calm, reserved but determined tone that he adopts 
every time he talks to press representatives. [passage omitted] 
  Our discussion came after the bomb explosion in the yard at 
Aya Sofya a few days ago which injured three foreign tourists 
and for which the PKK [Workers Party of Kurdistan] claimed 
responsibility. We also discussed future developments in the 
Kurdish movement for independence within the political scene 
being formulated in Turkey after the recent communal elections. 
  ``Why Aya Sofya, a major symbol of Orthodoxy?'' I asked him, 
and his expression was not apologetic in the least when he 
turned around and said: ``It is our party's decision to strike 
at tourist targets in Turkey. We will strike one by one at all 
the tourist targets, including Aya Sofya and the area around it 
which is also a tourist target inside the Turkish state. Our 
action had no other sort of meaning.'' 
  There were human victims in earlier PKK operations as well 
as 
in this one. Hasan Dag says that ``the attacks against Turkish 
tourism are part of our war operations and it is natural that 
there are human victims. We regard the whole of Turkey as a war 
zone and for this reason there cannot be tourists in a country 
where war is being waged. There is war going on in Bosnia, 
Nagorno-Karabakh, and South Africa, and there are no tourists in 
these area. So, why should tourists visit Turkey?'' 
  The warning also concerns the Greeks: ``In a belligerent 
area we cannot distinguish the targets. What we are interested 
in is that no tourist exchange enters Turkey. Consequently, the 
Greeks must not visit Turkey. The Greek tourist agencies must 
not organize tours there and the Greek ship owners must not 
organize cruises to the Turkish coasts but rather to the Greek 
islands.'' [passage omitted] 
  The strict order from the Kurdish Democratic Party and the 
outlawed PKK to the Kurdish population was general abstention or 
casting invalid votes in the Turkish communal elections. The 
PKK particularly stressed this order by executing some local 
candidates of big Turkish parties who were of Kurdish origin. 
[passage omitted] 
  -- Were the PKK's execution of Kurdish candidates not cruel 
actions? [Vayena question as published] 
  ``When we boycott the election, those candidates cannot 
fulfill the desires of the Kurdish people. They were traitors. 
They were the men of the Turkish state and mercenaries. Do not 
forget that the Turkish Army has not stopped its attacks against 
our villages even for a single day.'' [passage omitted] 
  Hasan Dag also talks about the reinforcement of the Turkish 
military forces in Kurdistan, whom he estimates to total 400,000 
well-armed men. He also notes the firm tactical armed 
resistance by the Kurdish guerrillas: ``At this time we have 
30,000 men and women fighters and there is provision for more 
than 50,000 by the end of 1994. On the Kurdish mountains we 
maintain 70 military training camps. In the next few months we 
will transfer the war to the big Turkish cities, to Istanbul, 
Ankara, Izmir, and we will be all the more dynamic. We will 
strike fatal blows at the Turkish economy, which is already 
facing a crisis.'' 
  Hasan Dag admits that this is a war with unequal forces both 
in terms of men and weapons. However, as he put it, ``we have a 
different approach. Our strongest weapon is our people's will. 
When we began the armed struggle in 1984 with 300 men in all, 
the Turkish generals boasted that they would annihilate us in 72 
hours.'' 
  ``Today, 10 years later, we continue the war and we have 
gained our people's respect.'' [passage omitted] 

