BFN 

<F P=106> [By Chang Jer-shong and Y. C. Tsai] </F>
  [Text] Johannesburg, March 22 (CNA) -- South African 
police on Tuesday [22 March] rapped Britain's Environmental 
Investigation Agency (EIA) for falsely accusing a Taiwan 
diplomat of involvement in rhino horn trade. 
  Pieter Lategan, chief of the Endangered Species Protection 
Unit (ESPU) under the South African Police Administration, said 
the Republic of China [ROC] Embassy and the Republic of China's 
National Police Administration have worked closely with the ESPU 
on wildlife protection. 
  None of the embassy officials or vehicles were ever involved 
in rhino horn smuggling, Lategan said. 
  Moreover, he noted, no one from the ESPU has ever been 
interviewed by the EIA. 
  The South African official said he has phoned the EIA to 
express his strong dissatisfaction at the accusations. In 
addition, he has sent a letter to the London-based conservation 
group requesting a detailed explanation of the accusations. 
  During a meeting of nongovernment organizations (NGO) 
following the Standing Committee meeting of the Convention on 
International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES) in Geneva 
Monday, the EIA aired a 20-minute videotape, in which a South 
African policeman charged Taiwan envoys with smuggling rhino 
horns. 
  A statement issued by Taiwan's Ministry of Foreign Affairs 
Tuesday said the man accused of rhino horn smuggling was not a 
diplomat but an Overseas Chinese who once worked as a member of 
the Control Yuan, Taiwan's highest watchdog body. 
  The man, Yen Nuo, was [word indistinct] in South Africa in 
February 1986 for illegally trading in rhino horns, but was 
found not guilty as Yen had a license to sell rhino horns issued 
by the South African Government. 
  Meanwhile, a report from Geneva said the CITES Standing 
Committee has decided to ignore the EIA's accusations. 

