Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] Beijing, January 6 (XINHUA) -- China's state land 
reclamation farms have scored big achievements in both 
agricultural and industrial production. 
  Last year, they reported good harvests in all fields. Cotton 
output reached 400,000 tons, 6.3 percent up over the previous 
year and providing 10 percent of the total in the country. 
Exports of soybeans from these areas accounted for 30 percent 
of the national total. 
  With the growth of agriculture, industry and the service 
sector, the state-owned farms scattered in various parts of the 
country such as Xinjiang, Heilongjiang and Yunnan produced a 
gross domestic product of 84.4 billion yuan (over 10 billion 
U.S. dollars) last year, with tax and profits amounting to 4 
billion yuan, respectively 15 and 30 percent more than the 
previous year. 
  The total farm production value is expected to be 26.3 
billion yuan (about 3.3 billion U.S. dollars) in 1993, a 4 
percent increase over 1992. The farms' total production of 
grain and soybeans was over 10 million tons last year. 
  Industrial firms owned by the farms produced a total 
industrial value of 42.968 billion yuan (over 5.4 billion U.S. 
dollars) in 1993, up 12 percent over 1992, and the sales volume 
reached 40.967 billion yuan (about 5.12 billion U.S. dollars). 
  The service sector involving farm technology, commerce, real 
estate and tourism also made headway. 
  The farms have set up 675 export-oriented enterprises. 
  Last year, foreign investment in the farms reached 570 
million U.S. dollars, 117 percent higher than in the previous 
year. The farms exported 5 billion yuan worth of commodities, 
up by 8.8 percent over 1992. 

