Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] Tehran, Feb. 21, IRNA -- Two morning dailies here 
Monday commented over the current visit to Iran of Iraqi Deputy 
Foreign Minister Sa'd al-Faysal and expressed pessimism over the 
result of the talks. 
  The English daily `TEHRAN TIMES' said in its editorial that 
replacing mutual distrust between Iran and Iraq with an 
environment conducive to bilateral good will is possible only 
with the passage of time and the pursuance of a 'one step at a 
time' policy. 
  It quoted informed sources as saying that Baghdad's main 
objective in the current talks is to secure the speedy return of 
its fighter planes held in Iran. 
  "The Iraqi regime must realize that while it continues to 
arm 
and train anti-Iranian terrorists on its soil bordering the 
Islamic Republic, it would be childish to believe that Iran will 
return the planes which can easily end up in the hands of those 
same terrorists to be used against its citizens", the daily 
underlined. 
  Tehran's reluctance to expand relations with Baghdad stems 
from the fact that Iraq simultaneously speaks from both corners 
of its mouth, the paper said adding that from one corner come 
statements of reconciliation, while the other corner tries to 
convince the West that another Western investment in Baghdad's 
war machine is needed to bring Iran's Islamic revolution under 
control and to secure Western interests. 
  The article concluded by saying that Iraq no longer holds 
any 
attraction for its former Western backers, and the stability of 
the Persian Gulf countries, since the elimination of Baghdad 
from the regional power equation, has further convinced the West 
of Iraq's diminished value. 
  Commenting on the same subject, the daily `ABRAR' noted that 
although the Iraqis have so far shown reluctance in taking any 
positive step in their negoitiations with Iranian officials, 
they have almost turned over all possible concessions to the 
U.N. and the West. 
  The Iraqi officials hold the idea that through speedy 
mending 
of ties with the West, U.S. in particular, their country could 
regain its political status both at the international community 
and in the region, the paper added. 
  It further noted that the Iraqis, imagining that the West 
would forgive their past wrongdoings and they would experience 
the golden days once again, did not deem necessary to follow up 
negotiations with Iran. 
  Therefore, said the editorial, Iraq should abandon its 
hypocritical and stubborn policy and instead open a new chapter 
in its relations with Iran. 
  The paper concluded by saying that no doubt Iraqi statesmen 
are fully aware of the position and capabilities of both Iran 
and their own country under the present circumstances and if 
they act vigilantly they would not miss the chance. 

