Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] Ulaanbaatar, January 8. (OANA-MONTSAME) -- As an 
official of the National Development Department of Mongolia P. 
Dansranjav announces, for building a hydroelectric power station 
on the River Egiingol as a whole 268 mln [million] US dollars 
are needed, the Asian Development Bank agreed to allot 100 mln 
us dollars out of them. The rest 168 mln US dollars should be 
allotted by the Mongolian side, an issue about allotment of 
these means will be considered in the first quarter of the 
current year. The hydroelectric power station projecting is 
accomplished in the first quarter of the current year. The 
hydroelectric power station projecting is accomplished by 
Mongolian specialists jointly with the representatives of the 
Swiss company "Electrowatt". According to P. Dansranjav, 
capital investments to building the hydroelectric power station, 
in all probability, will be allotted starting from 1995. 
  As P. Dansranjav informs, the Academy of Sciences has 
submitted for consideration to the government a project on 
foundation of small solar electric power stations with the 
Japanese assistance. In case of granting a credit worth of 08 
[as received] mln tugriks there is a possibility to found more 
than 3000 solar electric power stations attached to rural 
hospitals, schools, cattle breeding camps, the details for such 
stations will be delivered from Japan. 

