BFN 

  [Text] Johannesburg April 27 SAPA -- South African Airways 
spokesman Leon Els said international departures at Jan Smuts 
Airport would be fully operational by 2PM on Wednesday [27 
April] after the car bomb. Mr Els said all international 
flights scheduled to leave before 2.15PM would depart from 
Terminal C while mopping up operations were in progress. "We 
expect to have everything back to normal at about 2PM however". 
  He advised passengers to arrive earlier than usual as 
security had been stepped up and cars would not be allowed to 
remain unattended outside the building. "Otherwise everything 
will operate as usual. The domestic services will remain 
unchanged and the parking lots fully operational." 
  Public relations officer for Jan Smuts Airport, Coenie 
Meyer, 
said passengers could be assured that they would be safe. "The 
airport is totally secure and we have been working closely with 
police," he said. "Security has been extremely strict." 
  "We diverted only one flight from Lufthansa to Bloemfontein 
but that has now arrived. Otherwise all flights have arrived 
and departed as scheduled." 
  Mr Meyer said the damage caused by the bomb had mostly been 
to windows, aluminium frames and the ceiling. 
  The Azanian People's Liberation Army [APLA], armed wing of 
the Pan Africanist Congress, condemned the bombing, saying in a 
statement the chain of reactionary violence since Sunday "will 
never stop our people in their road to victory. We condemn 
these bombings and killings of our people with the contempt they 
deserve." 

