Language: <F P=105> Spanish </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Excerpt] Following the discovery and destruction of the 
largest drug laboratory yet found in Eastern Bolivia, the 
government has confirmed the existence of facilities to process 
cocaine sulphate into cocaine hydrochloride in Bolivia. 
  Operation "Aguardiente" was carried out by personnel of the 
Special Antinarcotics Force in Eastern Bolivia last weekend, 
with the support of the DEA. This led to the discovery of a 
laboratory where the drug was transformed into highly pure 
cocaine -- which had not been previously observed in Bolivia. 
  Cocaine sulfate or cocaine base paste is normally shipped in 
a wet pack to Colombia where it was refined. 
  National Defense Secretary Mario Soliz and Prosecutor 
Fernando Ugarte held a new conference at which they confirmed 
that the 18 individuals arrested, among which are four 
Colombians, worked directly with the Cali Cartel of Colombia. 
  One of the arrested individuals said the head of the cartel 
is Pacho Herrera, currently sought internationally by antidrug 
forces. 
  The laboratory was equipped with weapons, radio equipment, 
and everything needed to manufacture cocaine. The police even 
found a pump to bring water from the river to the camp, fans to 
dry the drugs, and a hydraulic press to pack the cocaine prior 
to shipping. 
  The drug was transported to Colombia, via Brazil, from where 
it was shipped to several parts of Europe, especially The 
Netherlands. [passage omitted] 

