Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] Nanning, March 4 (CNS) -- The Guangxi Zhuang 
Autonomous Region has made noticeable achievements in cracking 
down on gun-and drug-smuggling with over 1,000 firearms of 
various kinds and a batch of narcotics being seized and 49 gun- 
and drug-smuggling gangs campaigned against within just the last 
half-year. 
  Since the normalization of relations between China and 
Vietnam, the two countries have seen their border trade 
developing very rapidly while at the same time criminal 
activities including gun- and drug-smuggling across the border 
have been increasingly rampant. Starting from June last year, 
the frontier guards under the armed police force in the region 
have concentrated their strength and adopted effective measures 
to fight against such criminal actiities with the cracking down 
on 152 gun- and drug-smuggling cases involving 1,463 firearms, 
7,179 bullets, 418 grenades, 69.037 kilograms of opium and 7.099 
kilograms of heroin being seized and 49 criminal rings involving 
239 persons smashed. 
  The executive deputy secretary of the regional party 
committee, Mr. Ding Tingmu, speaking at a victory meeting on 
fighting against these crimes, said that the fight facing the 
region against these criminal activities remained arduous since 
there was a land and sea border of over 2,000 kilometres to 
patrol there. In order to safeguard the normal order of 
production and living and the economic development in the border 
areas, the fight against such crime would be carried on for a 
long time to come. 

