BFN 

  [Text] Monrovia, 31 Mar (AFP) -- Charles Taylor, leader of 
the National Patriotic Front of Liberia [NPFL], the main 
Liberian armed faction, offered to mediate yesterday in an 
internal crisis that has been shaking up his rivals in the 
United Liberation Movement for Democracy in Liberia [ULIMO] 
since the beginning of this month. 
  Fighting between Mandingos, who are loyal to the ULIMO 
political leader, Alhaji Koromah, and Krahns, who support 
military commander General Roosevelt Johnson, has left some 300 
dead. 
  In a statement broadcast on NPFL radio and monitored in 
Monrovia, Mr. Taylor asked the representatives of each of the 
two fighting clans to meet in his presence and said that he was 
"optimistic" that the crisis could be resolved quickly. He 
denied accusations that the NPFL had taken sides with General 
Johnson against Mr. Koromah. "As far as we are concerned, the 
war is over. We will not do anything to hinder the peace 
process," he stated. 
  To back this declaration of good faith, yesterday the NPFL 
began distributing 25 tons of rice to displaced civilians who 
have settled around Monrovia. "This is only the beginning," he 
stated in a communique. 
  The NPFL, the ULIMO, and the former interim government, the 
three main factions in the Liberian civil war, which has left 
about 150,000 dead since December 1989, in July 1993 signed a 
peace agreement in which they pledged to disarm and demobilize 
their troops before the holding of general elections -- slated 
for September -- in the country. This normalization process, 
which started on 7 March, is still at a very early stage since 
the disarmament and installation of the transitional 
institutions are only just symbolic. 

