BFN 

  [Text] Nairobi, 11 May (AFP) -- Artillery duels raged in 
Kigali early Wednesday [11 May] as rebel forces shelled Army 
positions in their drive to oust government troops from the 
Rwandan capital, a United Nations spokesman said. The mainly 
Tutsi rebel Rwandan Patriotic Front has stepped up its offensive 
against the Hutu-led Army in what UN military sources said was a 
final onslaught to capture Kigali. 
  Artillery shells boomed and machine guns rattled as battles 
flared in different neighbourhoods for about two hours after 
dawn. But the fighting tapered off as the sun rose higher over 
the Kigali hills, spokesman Moctar Gueye told AFP by telephone 
from the capital. 
  UN Secretary-General Butrus Butrus-Ghali meanwhile suggested 
boosting the UN force in Rwanda to 5,500 in a report to be 
discussed by the Security Council. All but 400 of the 2,500 UN 
troops formerly in Rwanda were withdrawn after they proved 
powerless to stem a month-old bloodbath that has killed 200,000 
people. Mass slaughter engulfed the tiny central African 
country after president Juvenal Habyarimana was killed when his 
plane was downed on April 6. 
  A UN military official predicted Tuesday that Kigali would 
fall to the rebels within a week. He said battered government 
soldiers were deserting in large numbers, while remaining forces 
were "in disarray." Outside Kigali, heavy fighting raged 
Tuesday in the northwestern town of Ruhengeri, and in Bugesera, 
south of the capital, as the rebels tried to seize more 
territory from the Army. The rebels say they want to stop 
massacres of the minority Tutsi people, who make up 15 percent 
of the population, and opposition sympathisers. 

