Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:BFN 

<F P=106> [Press statement by Gertrude Mzizi, IFP Transval Peace Desk, </F>
issued by the office of the Chief Minister of KwaZulu on 10 
Janaury on the SAPA PR Wire Service] 
  [Text] The IFP [Inkatha Freedom Party] deplores the 
shooting of SABC [South African Broadcasting Corporation] 
journalist Abdul Shariff during an ANC [African National 
Congress] visit to Katlehong yesterday. We are conducting an 
investigation into the circumstances surrounding the incident 
and our leadership in the area has fully cooperated with police 
enquiries. 
  As a preliminary comment, however, we note the following: 
  1. Tokhoza and Katlehong have been decimated by recent 
inter-ANC fighting, and all ANC attempts to resolve this have 
failed to date. This was the motivation behind Sunday's visit. 
Yet instead of calling the ANC's warring parties to a neutral 
venue, the ANC chose to go on a unannounced walk-about in the 
most highly contested part of the township. 
  2. Hostel residents are adamant that the first shots were 
fired at them from ANC-occupied houses alongside the hostel as 
the ANC entourage neared the hostel. 
  3. The ANC had not negotiated the visit with hostel 
residents 
-- subject to constant ANC harassment and attack -- whose first 
knowledge of what was happening was when a group of ANC 
supporters started approaching the hostel. 
  4. We find it incomprehensible that in the midst of a war 
zone, an armed ANC entourage was moving about in the vicinity of 
the hostel. Those armed included ANC leader Robert McBride, as 
well as SDU [self-defense unit] members and other ANC operatives 
who were openly flaunting their AK-47s. In the light of recent 
events in Tokhoza, there was nothing to indicate that their 
intentions were anything but hostile. 
  5. The four people arrested by the police are neither IFP 
supporters nor hostel residents. There is a very strong 
indication that in addition to shots fired at the hostel, shots 
were also fired at the ANC entourage by renegade ANC elements 
that have already claimed so many ANC lives in the area. 
  In short, we believe the ANC acted in a highly irresponsible 
manner and that the tragedy would never have occurred had the 
ANC planned its visit properly. 

