71-72 
<F P=103> 937C0080C </F>
<F P=104>  Moscow KLINICHESKAYA LABORATORNAYA DIAGNOSTIKA </F>
 Language: <F P=105>Russian </F>
Article Type:CSO 

<F P=106> [Article by A. G. Valiyev, A. I. Kamilov, F. Z. Nizamov, </F>
First Tashkent Medical Institute; UDC 616.153.962.4-097] 
  [Abstract] Reports have been filed in recent years to the 
effect that with burns and a number of infectious diseases, 
specific antigens not only bind into immune complexes, but are 
also partially adsorbed on the surface of erythrocytes and 
thrombocytes. Although that is of diagnostic and predictive 
significance, methods for identifying antigens adsorbed on the 
surface of formed elements of the blood are procedurally 
complex, special equipment is required, and reagents are 
expensive. The researchers here have devised a simple, specific, 
fast method for identifying specific antigens -- salmonella and 
yersinia -- on the erythrocytes surface. The method, based on 
the fact that erythrocytes with adsorbed specific antigens enter 
into a hemagglutination reaction when they interact with 
specific antibodies, is called hemagglutination reaction with 
autoerythrocytes. The diagnostic value of the reaction was 
checked by means of examination of essentially healthy 
individuals and individuals with acute Flexner dysentery, viral 
hepatitis A, or staphylococcal diarrhea. In the healthy 
individuals and the individuals with dysentery and hepatitis A, 
in the presence of nonadsorbed agglutinating serum of salmonella 
and yersinia, the reaction was positive in titres of 1:5 and 
1:10. In individuals with salmonellosis and yersiniosis, in the 
presence of nonadsorbed agglutinating serum of salmonella and 
yersinia, the reaction was positive in 85 percent and 90 percent 
of the observations, in titres of 1:80 to 1:640. Reaction titre 
declined in a gradual, statistically reliable manner when the 
individuals' conditions improved. The researchers conclude that 
the diagnostic titre is 1:20 or higher. References 2 (Russian). 


