BFN 

  [Text] His Majesty King Husayn has said Jordan's 
participation in the peace process emanated from Jordan's belief 
in, and firm conviction about, the need to achieve a 
comprehensive, just, and lasting peace in this region, whose 
peoples suffered from the causes of tension and conflict 
throughout past decades. He warned against serious difficulties 
and obstacles facing the peace process. 
  His majesty also said failure to achieve a real breakthrough 
on the path to a just, comprehensive, and lasting peace in the 
region will result in a state of frustration and tension that 
will lead to violence. He called on the states concerned with 
achieving peace and stability in this region to make further 
efforts in order to promote this process and enable it to 
achieve its objectives. 
  His majesty pointed to the constant principles of the 
Jordanian position on the peace process, based on implementing 
the resolutions of international legitimacy and extending all 
assistance and support to the Palestinian brethren to enable 
them to achieve their rights on their national soil. 
  His majesty's remarks came during his reception of the 
information mission for fact-finding in the Middle East at the 
Royal Hashemite Court today. This mission comprises 
representatives of media and press bodies from various world 
states. 
  At the beginning of the meeting, His Majesty King Husayn 
welcomed the members of the mission, and briefed them on the 
dimensions of the democratic and developmental Jordanian march 
and Jordan's achievements, which are appreciated and admired by 
everyone. The meeting was attended by Marwan al-Qasim, his 
majesty the king's political adviser; and Muhammad Rasul 
al-Kilani and Dr. Khalid al-Karaki, advisers to his majesty the 
king. 

