Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] Ankara--Turkey's current account deficit stands at 
$6.38 billion, a jump of 577 percent compared to the deficit in 
1992, according to an announcement by the Central Bank on 
Thursday. The Central Bank said the current accounts deficit, 
which was a mere $942 million in 1992, shot up to more than $6 
billion, the highest deficit in Turkish history. According to 
the Central Bank, the main culprit for the massive jump in the 
current account's deficit was the steep increase of the foreign 
trade deficit by 73 percent. 
  The foreign trade deficit, which stood at $8.19 billion in 
1992, went up to $14.16 billion in 1993. 
  Turkey's net tourism revenues increased by 8.9 percent in 
1993 compared to 1992 from $2.86 billion in 1992 to $3.025 
billion in 1993. 
  Workers' remittances fell from $3 billion in 1992 to $2.91 
billion in 1993, representing a fall of 2.9 percent. In 1993, 
Turkey repaid $7.87 billion in foreign debts. 
  Turkey's short-term foreign loans in 1993 increased by 38.8 
percent compared to 1992 while the medium- and long-term loans 
were up by 37.8 percent. In 1993, Turkey borrowed $5.68 billion 
in short-term loans and $4.86 billion in medium- and long-term 
loans. 
  During the same period foreign investments fell. Foreign 
investments for 1992 were $779 million while in 1993 this 
dropped to $622 million. 

