BFN 

  [Text] Last year experts of Kazakhstan's customs 
confiscated around 10 kg of drugs from passengers, and over a 
period of four months of the current year they have seized 133 
kg. This fact was quoted during a roundtable discussion 
organized by law enforcement bodies at Almaty's friendship 
house. Drugs made of hemp from the Chu valley are smuggled to 
neigboring and distant countries. 
  By using modern methods of checking luggage and cargo our 
Customs is trying to block illegal channels. It uses 40 
specially trained dogs for this and their number will soon be 
increased to 100 [words indistinct]. Foreign drug mafias have 
contributed to the seriousness of the situation which has 
developed in Kazakhstan. The relevant UN departments are 
worried about this. A group of its representatives, led by the 
deputy secretary general and the director of the UN program for 
control over drugs, Giorgio Giacomelli, who were on a visit to 
Almaty, urged the participants in the roundtable discussion to 
join efforts in combatting it. 
  Leaders of ministries of internal affairs and agriculture, 
the National Security Committee, procuracy and other departments 
put forward a number of proposals on this issue. In particular, 
they think it is important to set up a Kazakhstan committee for 
combatting drugs and drug smuggling. 

