Language: <F P=105> Indonesian </F>
Article Type:BFN 

<F P=106> ["Excerpts" of interview with Arifin Siregar, ambassador to </F>
the United States, by TEMPO correspondent Bambang Harymurti in 
Washington; date not given] 
  [Text] [Harymurti] How are current Indonesia-U.S. 
relations? 
  [Siregar] You know that relations between Indonesia and the 
United States in the past few years have been quite good. In 
politics, Indonesia has been active in solving the Cambodian 
problem, and this has benefited the United States. The 
Indonesian and U.S. Governments have also worked together well 
in international forums, such as in the Asia-Pacific Economic 
Cooperation [APEC] and the Uruguay Round meetings. 
  [Harymurti] Did Indonesia and the United States always hold 
similar views during the Uruguay Round talks? 
  [Siregar] Of course, there are always differences of 
opinion, but we do not belong to the group of countries 
obstructing the Uruguay Round talks. In economic ties, our 
bilateral trade grows steadily. Our exports last year stood at 
U.S. $4.5 billion and our imports at U.S. $3.5 billion, while 
U.S. exports to Indonesia stood at U.S. $4.3 billion. 
  [Harymurti] So, bilateral trade is more or less balanced. 
  [Siregar] That is right. From the Indonesian point of view, 
the U.S. market has great potential. U.S. investments in 
Indonesia, especially in oil, gas, and mining stand at about 
U.S. $25 billion, while its nonoil and nongas investments are at 
about U.S. $3.2 billion. The United States is the fifth largest 
investor in Indonesia after Japan, Hong Kong, Taiwan, and South 
Korea. 
  [Harymurti] What is the impact on bilateral relations of the 
U.S. threat to remove Generalized System of Preference [GSP] 
facilities? 
  [Siregar] Bilateral relations are quite cordial. More than 
10,000, maybe even 12,000 Indonesian students are now studying 
in the United States. Many have completed their studies and 
returned home. Viewed from various angles, bilateral relations 
are quite excellent. It is therefore regrettable if relations 
are strained due to the GSP and human rights issues. 
  [Harymurti] The GSP facilities involve only a small fraction 
of Indonesian exports to the United States. Why does the 
government appear to be nervous about the possible removal of 
GSP facilities? 
  [Siregar] It is true that only U.S. $640 million were 
derived from the GSP facilities from our exports to the United 
States in 1992, which stood at U.S. $4.5 billion. But if the 
GSP facilities are discontinued, this move may strain bilateral 
relations. As you know, Indonesia has been viewed in a negative 
way since the Dili incident on 12 November 1991. This problem 
continues to exist and may flare up again anytime. We witnessed 
U.S. Senator Feingold's attempt to ban the sale of arms to 
Indonesia. We noticed that the U.S. press often views Indonesia 
as a gross violator [three preceding words in English] of human 
rights, and this trend will emerge when the GSP facilities are 
indeed withdrawn in February. Therefore, I hope a satisfactory 
solution to the issue will soon be found. Otherwise, the 
negative consequences will be far greater. 
  [Harymurti] However, the main problem lies with the U.S. 
Congress and nongovernmental organizations, not the U.S. 
Government. How do you cope with them? 
  [Siregar] That is true. The Dili incident is the most 
difficult issue, and this will be a medium- or long-term issue. 
We need time to solve it. In view of the fact that the U.S. 
political system is different from that of other countries, 
including Indonesia, we cannot say that the main problem lies 
with the U.S. Congress and nongovernmental organizations. All 
of them should be seen as interdependent agencies. The GSP 
issue is one example. Nongovernmental organizations, such as 
Asia Watch and the AFL-CIO, are the agencies that take the 
initiative to have our GSP removed, but it is the U.S. 
Government that makes the decision. The same is true with the 
Feingold Amendment, namely a senator tabled the bill, but if 
Congress had approved it, the U.S. Government would have 
implemented the resolution to ban the arms sale. Therefore, 
they are inseparable. My personal view is that bilateral 
relations should not be strained by the GSP and workers' rights 
issues. 
  [Harymurti] There are fears that once the GSP is removed, 
other countries will follow the U.S. example. Is that true? 
  [Siregar] That is possible, because workers' rights are also 
part of human rights. 
  [Harymurti] What is the outcome of the ILO team's recent 
visit to Indonesia? They said that some of Indonesia's labor 
regulations are not up to the international standard. 
  [Siregar] I have not yet received a complete report on the 
issue, but at a hearing on 3 November 1993, the Indonesian 
Government, through its ambassador, said that it would take 
steps to improve workers' welfare. This is not due to the U.S. 
request. Hopefully the government will really take steps for the 
benefit of its own people and also as a means to appease the 
Americans. 
  [Harymurti] What about the case of Marsinah [labor activist 
murdered in East Java]? 
  [Siregar] Well, it is one of the cases the government has 
taken appropriate actions. Anybody believed to be involved in 
the case will be put on trial, and the court will pass its 
judgment soon. 
  [Harymurti] What category of U.S. investors are believed 
to have the strongest potential in Indonesia -- the medium or 
small-scale investors? 
  [Siregar] There are several categories. Let us say that the 
Freeport Corporation is a big one, but there are also many 
medium-scale investors, all of whom have invested a total of 
U.S. $3.2 billion, as I mentioned earlier. I see more potential 
for our exports to the United States, which are projected to 
increase by 25 percent next year. 
  [Harymurti] What is the ranking of our exports to the United 
States compared to that to other countries? 
  [Siregar] In terms of nonoil and nongas exports, the value 
of our exports to the United States is almost equivalent to that 
to Japan, namely at U.S. $3.9 billion. Out total exports to 
Japan stand at U.S. $10.8 billion. This means that the United 
States has become our second largest market for exports. As for 
the United States, the value of its imports from Indonesia ranks 
23rd. 
  [Harymurti] What kind of investment can we expect from the 
United States? 
  [Siregar] We can still expect a lot of U.S. investment in 
the oil and gas sector. An example is a project by Exxon. If 
it indeed materializes, it will be worth between $20 and $40 
billion. However, negotiations are still under way. For the 
nonoil and nongas sector, U.S. investment is still far smaller 
than that of Japan, Korea, Hong Kong, and Taiwan. 
  [Harymurti] What efforts do you believe should be exerted to 
boost bilateral ties with the United States? 
  [Siregar] I believe promotional campaigns on trade, tourism, 
and investment should be intensified because many U.S. 
businessmen still do not have adequate information about 
Indonesia. Perhaps these businessmen will become potential 
investors. Therefore, I plan to visit Michigan, Louisiana, 
Georgia, Minnesota, and Texas along with members of the 
U.S.-ASEAN Council to persuade U.S. businessmen to invest in 
Indonesia or buy more Indonesian products. 
  [Harymurti] There are reports that many would-be investors 
are complaining about the lack of legal protection in Indonesia 
and also consider them as an obstacle to investment. 
  [Siregar] This is the typical attitude of American and 
Western people in general. They cannot make decision quickly. 
They must look at many aspects first, especially the legal one. 
For this reason, countries like Korea and Hong Kong tend to 
invest more in Indonesia. 
  [Harymurti] Some observers said that since the APEC meeting 
in Seattle, there has been a shift in the U.S. Government's 
stand on human rights and environment issues. 
  [Siregar] It is too early to say that. We must not forget 
one thing worth paying attention to, namely during the NAFTA 
debates, the U.S. Government strained its relations with the 
trade unions. The relations were so strained that President 
Clinton found it necessary to hold a special meeting with Lane 
Kirkland, chairman of the trade unions. We never know whether 
Clinton had to give some sort of concessions to the unionists on 
certain labor rights. It is indeed worth noting that the APEC 
meeting in Seattle has indirectly made us the focus of the U.S. 
public's interest. Perhaps we will reap its positive impact. 
However, the NAFTA debates may also have a negative impact. 
  [Harymurti] Do you attach great importance to the fact that 
Indonesia will host the APEC meeting next year? 
  [Siregar] Yes, I believe it is good for us to host the 
meeting because the leaders meeting [two preceding words in 
English] will be held for the second time. I believe this is 
very important. 
  [Harymurti] Therefore, are you optimistic that 
Indonesia-U.S. relations will continue to improve? 
  [Siregar] I cannot say that I am very optimistic, and I have 
to be cautious here because we never know how the GSP issue will 
turn out. I believe the GSP issue is crucial, and I hope it 
will be solved properly. But when the GSP issue is solved, it 
does not mean that everything will proceed smoothly because the 
East Timor issue is still haunting us. 
  [Harymurti] Until when? 
  [Siregar] It will take some time to find the solution. Right 
now, there are still protest demonstrations in Seattle and 
Washington, D.C. on East Timor. Even though the the U.S. press 
praises Indonesia's economic performance, they always try to 
find something negative. This is especially true with THE 
WASHINGTON POST, which often carries disturbing reports about 
Indonesia. 
  [Harymurti] As a former director of IMF, do you think the 
policies of the IMF and World Bank will be influenced by the 
human rights and democratic reform issues? 
  [Siregar] There are signs toward that end because donor 
nations are mostly Western countries. For example, the World 
Bank earlier paid no attention to environment issues. After the 
World Bank was heavily criticized, it now pays attention to the 
matter. The same is true with the human rights issue because 
the majority of World Bank shareholders are Western nations, 
which will of course put their priorities first. An example is 
that the IMF was earlier reluctant to give loans to Vietnam. 
The influence of big countries on this issue can be felt 
directly or indirectly. Even though staff members of this 
financial institution may voice their opposition to certain 
decisions, the decision making process lies in the hands of 
countries which are big shareholders. 

