BFN 

  [Excerpts] Nairobi, May 25 (AFP) -- Two Rwandan Red Cross 
workers were killed and several other people wounded when a 
shell slammed into a field hospital in Kigali on Wednesday [25 
May], an official of the International Committee of the Red 
Cross (ICRC) said. 
  The United Nations meanwhile cancelled its two daily relief 
flights to Kigali on Wednesday after a UN plane was hit by a 
bullet in the Rwandan capital on Tuesday. 
  The ICRC opened the hospital last month to ease the strain 
on 
Kigali's overcrowded main hospital, where 30 patients were 
killed when it was shelled last week. 
  Further details of Wednesday's shelling were not immediately 
available, the ICRC official said in Nairobi. It was unknown 
who had fired the shell. The ICRC is one of the few aid 
agencies still operating in Kigali, where rebels are locked in 
combat with the army. [passage omitted] 
  Sporadic shelling shook Rwanda's blood-sodden capital 
Wednesday despite a partial truce between the two sides during 
the visit of a special United Nations envoy, UN military sources 
said. Up to half a million people have been hacked, clubbed, 
burned or shot to death in six weeks of frenzied ethnic 
slaughter in Rwanda, much of it blamed on beer-swilling 
militiamen only loosely controlled by the government. Most of 
the victims were minority Tutsis and Hutus suspected of 
supporting the mainly Tutsi rebel Rwanda Patriotic Front. 
Another 500,000 Rwandans, Hutus and Tutsis, have sought refuge 
in neighbouring countries. 

