BFN 

  [Text] Urumqi, March 9 (XINHUA) -- Northwest China's 
Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, which used to conjure up 
visions of remoteness and great hardship, has now become a 
hotbed of trade and a tourist mecca. 
  According to local officials, the autonomous region, with 14 
border outlets to the outside world, completed 910 million U.S. 
dollars-worth of foreign trade last year, 63.3 percent of which 
was done through border trade. 
  Local officials said that the region enjoys rich resources, 
but has long suffered shortages of funds, technology and people 
of expertise. The only railway linking Xinjiang with the 
eastern part of the country has become the bottle neck for the 
region's transport system. 
  When the central government approved a further opening of 
the 
region to the outside world in 1992, the region readjusted its 
development strategies. Local government has decided to push 
the border cities to the international marketplace with the 
backing of the areas along the trunk railway. A number of trade 
fairs have been held and cooperation with in-land regions been 
intensified. 
  In 1993, the region approved the establishment of 363 
foreign- funded enterprises and launched 184 overseas projects. 
  In addition, the autonomous region received 240,000 overseas 
tourists last year, besides a growing number of domestic 
travelers. 
  The officials contributed these successes to the 
implementation of various opening strategies concerning border 
areas, and the building and operation of the second Eurasian 
continental bridge. 

