Language: <F P=105> Portuguese </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] Sao Paulo -- Hitoshi Tanabe, 32, one of the most 
wanted members of the Japanese mafia (Yakuza), was arrested on 7 
March on a warrant issued by the Brazilian Supreme Court at the 
request of the Japanese Government. Tanabe is the leader of 
Dinshoukai, a faction of Yamaguchi-gumi, one of the main mafia 
organizations in Japan. The Federal Police [PF] arrested him in 
Londrina, Parana State. 
  Police officer Itanor Neves Carneiro said: There are strong 
indications that there are other Yakuza members in the country. 
  The PF suspect that Tanabe came to Brazil to run an 
international drug trafficking ring and to send Brazilian women 
to Japan to work as prostitutes. The extradition request was 
based on the seizure of 5.8 kg of cocaine in the Japanese city 
of Shizuoka in February 1993. It was the fifth largest seizure 
of cocaine in Japan, an amount worth $4 million in Japan and 
$90,000 in Brazil. At that time trafficker Takahiro Shiba 
confessed to the Japanese police that the cocaine had come from 
Brazil, and that it belonged to Tanabe. 
  Like most Yakuza members, Tanabe has tattoos on his body 
from 
his chest down to his ankles. Upon his transfer to Sao Paulo, 
Tanabe confirmed that he is a ranking member of Yamaguchi-gumi, 
but declined to give details. Nor did he want to explain why 
one digit of the little finger on his left hand had been severed. 
  Tanabe has a daughter born in Brazil -- Mary, 10 months old 
-- and was living with her and his Japanese wife, Kiyomi, in 
Brazil. 

