Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] Ankara, Feb 12 (AFP) -- A policeman and 19 Kurdish 
separatist rebels have been killed in a skirmish with security 
forces at Silopi, near Turkey's border with Iraq, local 
officials said Saturday [12 February]. 
  A group from the Kurdish Workers' Party (PKK) fell into an 
ambush Friday evening while attacking government offices with 
missile-launchers, according to security officials at 
Diyarbakir, responsible for the predominantly Kurdish eastern 
regions now under a state of emergency. 
  In Istanbul, the military wing of the PKK claimed 
responsibility for a bomb explosion Saturday morning in Tuzla, 
60 kilometres (38 miles) east of the city, which killed five 
people and wounded at least 30, according to the latest toll. 
  All of the dead or wounded were army officer cadets. The 
home-made bomb, hidden in a rubbish bin at a railway station, 
went off shortly after they were let out for the weekend. 
  A press statement released later by the pro-Kurdish agency 
Kurd-A said the bombing was carried out by an "underground 
revenge group" of the Popular Army for the Liberation of 
Kurdistan. 
  Some 60 people have been killed this month alone in 
separatist skirmishes in the east and southeast of the country, 
according to an AFP tally based on official reports. There has 
been a total of 11,000 deaths, including 3,300 civilians, since 
the start of the Kurdish rebellion in 1984. 

