BFN 

<F P=106> ["News Release"] </F>
  [Text] Estonian President Lennart Meri and Mrs. Helle Meri 
held a reception to the diplomatic corps accredited to Estonia 
on Tuesday [17 May], president's press service told ETA. 
  In the foreign policy part of his speech to the corps Meri 
stressed Estonia's wish to join NATO, pointing out granting the 
Baltic states West European Union associated [WEU] membership as 
a major event. During the next few months Estonia is to sign a 
free trade agreement with the European Union, Meri said. The 
European stability pact by the European Union offers good 
opportunities of cooperation to Estonia, especially as concerns 
integrating aliens into Estonian society and Estonian-Russian 
border problems, Meri said. As to the interior policy, 
President Meri criticized the unsatisfactory work of the 
Citizenship and Migration Board which has created additional 
tension. He was worried about the low standard of living of 
pensioners and other people with low income, the improvement of 
which depended on effective development of economy, Meri said. 
President also dwelt upon Estonian-Russian relations, saying 
that Estonia wanted friendly relations with Russia despite the 
wish to sign an agreement on withdrawal of all Russian troops 
from Estonia by August 31, 1994. 
  The answering speech was held by the doyen of the diplomatic 
corps, Ambassador of Sweden Lars Grundberg. 

