Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] Russian President Boris Yeltsin's chief aide said 
the aim of the current reform of the presidential staff was to 
ensure its maximum efficiency. 
  Viktor Ilyushin, in an exclusive interview given to Interfax 
on Saturday, said news media reports that one of the purposes of 
the reform was to put the Foreign Ministry and the power 
ministries outside the government structure were "a lot of 
rubbish." This should be clear to anyone who has any idea of 
how government works, he said. 
  He also denied media reports about the existence of "dual 
authority" in the presidential staff. "I am a member of 
presidential staff myself. (Chief of staff) Sergey Filatov and 
I have so many serious tasks to do that we have no time to go 
into such fibs," he said. 
  Ilyushin said there were many "complicated problems" that he 
and Filatov had been discussing in connection with the 
restructuring of the presidential staff. 
  He said he and Filatov would give their opinions on the new 
structure of the staff to journalists after the president 
approved it. 
  He said he regretted the fact that journalists, in search of 
sensation, sometimes represented their own conjectures as the 
truth. "I don't question journalists' right to comment even on 
facts which are insufficiently verified, but I don't think one 
can make such categorical statements about them," he said. 

