Language: <F P=105> German </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Excerpt] Bonn (DPA) -- After a severe public conflict of 
opinions, the Federal Cabinet on Wednesday [2 March] gave the 
starting signal for the construction of the first track for the 
Transrapid magnetic levitation train from Hamburg to Berlin. 
The service on the 284-km long line with one stop in Schwerin 
should open by the year 2005, with trains circulating in 
10-minute intervals and ticket prices of approximately 100 
German marks [DM]. Of the DM8.9 billion in total investments, 
Bonn will initially provide some DM5.6 billion. 
  Transport Minister Matthias Wissmann and Research Minister 
Paul Krueger, both of the Christian Democratic Union [CDU], 
stated that the Cabinet decision has "opened a new chapter in 
the history of transport technology." The Transrapid is a 
"trend-setting project -- economically, ecologically, and in 
terms of transport policy." The Social Democratic Party of 
Germany [SPD] is altogether against the project. 
  Both ministers and top representatives of the leading 
companies involved in the development of the system, Thyssen 
Industries and Siemens-Transport Technology, have emphasized 
that the Transrapid demonstrates Germany's efficiency as 
industrial center. It was pointed out that German developments 
are still about four or five years ahead of the forward-pressing 
competitors, mainly those from Japan. 
  The SPD and environmental associations reject the project 
mainly for financial reasons but also for reasons related to 
transport policy and spoke of a "flop costing billions." 
Instead, priority should be given to regular trains, which are 
an environmentally friendly means of transport. [passage 
omitted] 

