Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  Tehran, Jan. 16, IRNA -- Iran's Foreign Minister 'Ali Akbar 
Velayati arrived in Geneva today to take part in the two-day 
meeting of foreign ministers of the contact group of the 
Organization of Islamic Conference (OIC) [ICO] to follow up U.N. 
measures to put an end to Serbs crimes in Bosnia-Herzegovina. 
  In the course of the session, to convene today, OIC foreign 
ministers, while putting emphasis on their past stands, would 
review latest developments in Bosnia-Herzegovina. The 
participants will also pledge their full support for the 
rightful stands and constructive, flexible role that Bosnian 
President Alija Izetbegovic plays in the peace talks. The 
ministers will condemn Serbs crimes and blame the U.N. Security 
Council for failing to adopt a firm stand towards the 
establishment of peace in Bosnia and would call on the U.N. to 
make serious decisions in order to fulfil its humanitarian 
obligations. 
  Velayati, who takes part in the session at the invitation of 
President Izetbegovic and the OIC, will encourage the 
Organization of the Islamic Conference to hold an emergency 
session of foreign ministers of Islamic countries. 
  The Islamic Republic of Iran, from the very beginning of the 
Serbs aggression, has supported the legitimate rights of the 
Bosnian Muslims and spent its diplomatic efforts over lifting 
arms embargo against Bosnia, halting illegal arms delivery to 
the Serbs, putting an end to the siege of Sarajevo and 
liberating the occupied lands. 

