BFN 

  [Text] In Bavaria, the first deportation orders have been 
issued against Kurds that participated in the recent riots. 
Interior Minister Guenther Beckstein (Christian Social Union) 
said on Friday [1 April] that the authorities took the decision 
"after carefully considering all existing evidence." 
  The Greens' parliamentary group in the Bavarian Landtag had 
said before that deportations could be expected during the 
Easter holidays. Preparations are already running at full 
speed. The Greens quoted an official in the Interior Ministry, 
who had turned to them because of "serious legal doubts." 
  A spokesman of the Federal Justice Ministry said in Bonn 
that 
he could not imagine that the Bavarian government would violate 
Germany's clear obligations under international law by "illegal 
deportations." 
  Beckstein said that the deportation orders are "possible and 
necessary under the legal situation that is in accord with the 
constitution." Anyone violating the peace of a country cannot 
expect to be protected by that country. Those deported do not 
face "inappropriate treatment or death penalties." 
  According to the Greens, the deportation of Kurds during the 
Easter holidays was agreed by Beckstein with his Bonn colleague 
[Federal Interior Minister] Manfred Kanther (Christian 
Democratic Union). "The interior ministers seem to be aiming at 
an affront to Federal Justice Minister Sabine 
Leutheusser-Schnarrenberger (Free Democratic Party), who had 
clearly rejected deportations," Diet Group Chairman Hanns-Dieter 
Reichhelm said. The Bavarian Interior Ministry spoke of a 
disinformation campaign by the Greens. "Nobody dealing with 
this matter in the Bavarian Interior Ministry has made a 
relevant comment to them," reports from the Ministry said. 

