BFN 

  COAL IMPORTS, PRODUCTION: The state-owned Hornonitrianske 
Bane, the Upper Nitra Valley mining company, wants the Slovak 
Government to restrict coal imports from the Czech Republic so 
that it can maintain its mining operations and workforce, said 
company marketing director Fedor Boroska. The mining company 
contends that the Czech coal is of a lower quality, containing 
more sulfur, and is thus cheaper than Slovak coal. It needs to 
increase sales to customers who are now purchasing Czech coal by 
600,000 metric tons in order to maintain full production, and is 
hoping that the Slovak Ministry of the Environment will set 
punitive fees for imports of coal with high amounts of sulfur, 
said Boroska. But Ivan Akivanov, the director of Palimpex, a 
Slovak trading company which sells coal from Czech suppliers, 
says that low sales of Slovak coal are due to the reduced demand 
of the main Slovak coal customers. Akivanov told reporters on 26 
April that energy companies which had separated from Slovensky 
Energeticky Podnik (SEP) had signed contracts this year for 
power supplies from foreign firms, thus cutting demand for 
domestic coal. Akivanov also denied that Czech coal generally 
contained a higher amount of sulfur, and said that its price was 
gradually increasing to match that of Slovak coal. But he 
admitted that coal from the Sokolov mine in Bohemia contained 
more sulfur. Representatives of Hornonitrianske Bane contend 
that a law tariffing imports of coal with a high sulfur content 
already exists in the Czech Republic, and they see the tariffs 
as necessary to bring up the Czech price. Slovak Economy 
Minister Peter Magvasi told reporters on April 5 after meeting 
with labor and business representatives that his ministry was 
going to accept measures for increasing Slovak coal sales. He 
said that this could be accomplished within the GATT agreement, 
and at the time did not rule out controls on the quality of 
imported coal. Palimpex Director Akivanov, however, said that 
Slovakia's attempts to copy Czech restrictions on imports of 
sulfurous coal were nonsensical. Domestic mines can only meet 40 
percent of Slovakia's requirements for coal, and import 
restrictions "would cause not only growth in the price of coal, 
but also its lack," said Akivanov. (Prague CTK in English 1854 
GMT 26 Apr 94) The three Slovak coal mining companies employ 
12,000 people and extract 3.7 to 4 million metric tons of brown 
coal a year. Coal mining at the level of 3.5 to 3.7 million 
metric tons a year can be maintained until 2,000 to 2005. The 
largest mining company -- the state-owned Hornonitrianske Bane 
(Upper Nitra Valley Mines) with its head office in Prievidza -- 
extracts in its three mines (Cigel, Handlova, Novaky) about 75 
percent of Slovakia's brown coal output and employs 8,500 
people. About 70 percent of Slovakia's brown coal output, 2.5 
million metric tons, is consumed by the Novaky power station, 
the remaining 30 percent is made up of graded coal and is 
consumed by the population. Subsidies to mining companies have 
declined from Sk1.3 to 1.5 billion in the past to a mere Sk132 
million this year. Slovakia's brown coal consumption averages 
about 9 million metric tons; the difference between consumption 
and domestic production is covered by imports from the Czech 
Republic, on which Sk4.5 billion were spent in 1993. Imported 
Czech coal (which comes from open-pit mines) is about Sk170 per 
metric ton cheaper than domestically produced coal (which comes 
from underground mines), and this has cut demand for domestic 
coal. The Hornonitrianske Bane state enterprise currently has 
about 200,000 metric tons of unsold coal in stock, for which it 
must find a buyer if it wants to maintain its mining operations 
and work force. Fedor Boroska, the company's marketing director, 
wants the state to buy this coal as a "strategic contingency 
reserve." According to Boroska, Slovak coal mines are able to 
secure the sale of about 3.1 million metric tons of coal this 
year but expect the Ministry of Economy's help in marketing the 
remaining approximately 600,000 metric tons that will be mined 
this year. (Bratislava PRAVDA in Slovak 6 May 94 p 5) 
  RAIL INFORMATION, CONTROL SYSTEMS: At its meeting on 14 
April the Slovak Government agreed to guarantee an $11.5 million 
credit for the introduction of "information and control systems 
for freight and passenger rail transportation." The systems 
will be supplied by the British firm Digital Equipment Slovakia 
and the financial resources will be provided by the London 
branch of Societe General. Slovak Railroads will start paying 
off the seven-year credit, which is expected to be released in 
May or June this year, in 1996. (Bratislava SME in Slovak 26 Apr 
94 p 3) 
  BUS LINKS TO VIENNA: As of 29 May, the number of bus links 
between Vienna and Bratislava will increase to six per day in 
both directions. An agreement to this effect has been reached 
by E. Binda, director of Slovak Automobile Transportation (SAD), 
and F. Bittmann, director of Austrian Federal Railroads (OeBB). 
The increased density meets the wishes of commuters, tourists, 
Slovak users of Schwechat airport, and culture enthusiasts. The 
last bus will leave Vienna at 2230, which will allow Bratislava 
residents to attend theater performances and concerts in Vienna. 
The round-trip fare for Slovak citizens is 184 Slovak korunas 
(Sk). (Bratislava HOSPODARSKE NOVINY in Slovak 27 Apr 94 p 3) 
  WATER RETENTION: Engineer Vojtech Dalos's team from the 
Petrochemistry Research Institute in Prievidza has completed the 
development of "agrosorb," a "polymeric preparation for the 
retention of water for agricultural purposes," which is 
currently being tested in Arab countries. The chief advantages 
of this "unique novelty for turning deserts into gardens" are 
its capacity to absorb large quantities of water (300 to 500 
grams per one gram of agrosorb) and its relatively low price 
(Sk120 per kilogram). The Prievidza institute plans to produce 
about 100 tonnes of agrosorb annually but is willing to provide 
documentation for the construction of a large production 
facility, should a partner be found. Agrosorb will be exhibited 
for the first time at the Incheba fair in Bratislava. 
(Bratislava HOSPODARSKE NOVINY in Slovak 27 Apr 94 p 3) 
  LIVESTOCK PRODUCTION: Milk production in 1993 fell 116.2 
million liters (8.7 percent) short of the 1992 figure, mainly as 
a result of a 10.8 percent decline in the number of dairy cows. 
The milk yield per cow, on the other hand, went up 2.3 percent. 
An even greater decline, of 11.3 percent, was registered in the 
production of eggs. Production of wool was 25.2 percent lower 
than in 1992 and production of sheep cheese 2.7 percent lower. 
(Bratislava HOSPODARSKE NOVINY in Slovak 27 Apr 94 p 4) 
  HEALTH PRIVATIZATION LAGS: The Ministry of Health has issued 
307 authorizations to run a private practice to date, 227 of 
them for dentists and the rest for dermatologists, 
gynecologists, general practitioners, and psychiatrists. The 
overwhelming majority insist on cash payment because contracts 
with the National Insurance Company, the only insurance company 
in Slovakia, are disadvantageous for them. According to V. Zak, 
director of the ministry's Health Care Section, health services 
are thus the only sector in Slovakia that remains under 
virtually complete state control. By comparison, according to 
Czech Ministry of Health data, as many as 20 health insurance 
companies operate in the Czech Republic and 10 hospitals, 2 
maternity clinics, more than 2,670 general outpatient clinics, 
and 2,322 specialized outpatient clinics have been privatized. 
Moreover, there are 3,827 private dentists, more than 670 
private gynecologists, and 345 private pharmacies in the Czech 
Republic, as well as private nursing schools, a private 
ambulance service, and private homes for the chronically ill. 
While salaries in Slovak health care average 4,930 Slovak 
korunas, physicians in Czech state hospitals earn an average of 
10,000 Czech korunas and nurses an average of 7,000 korunas. 
(Bratislava SME in Slovak 28 Apr 94 p 2) 
  EBRD STAKE: The management of the London-based European Bank 
for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) has decided to take a 
stake in the Bratislava-based Tatra Banka a.s. According to 
Milan Vrskovy, director general of Tatra Banka, the bank's 
capital stock will be increased by at least Sk100 million so 
that the EBRD's stake should reach about 19 percent. The 
largest shareholder in Tatra Banka, whose capital stock amounts 
to Sk400 million, is now the Austrian Raiffeisenzentralbank 
(47.2 percent). The largest domestic shareholders are Vseobecna 
Uverova Banka (General Credit Bank, VUB) and Slovenska 
Sporitelna (Slovak Savings Bank) with 11 percent each. 
Discussions are currently being held to obtain the current 
shareholders' consent to lower their share in connection with 
the EBRD's entry. (Bratislava HOSPODARSKE NOVINY in Slovak 29 
Apr 94 p 2; Prague HOSPODARSKE NOVINY in Czech 2 May 94 p 4) 
  ELECTRICITY GRID: The operation of the Slovak Power Control 
Board (Slovensky Energeticky Dispecing, SED) was officially 
inaugurated in Zilina on 29 April in the presence of Rudolf 
Kvetan, director general of the Slovak Energy Company (Slovensky 
Energeticky Podnik, SEP). The SED, which has actually been in 
operation since 1 April, when the almost 45 years of joint 
operation of the Czech and Slovak electricity grids from Prague 
came to an end, thus assumed full control over the Slovak 
electricity grid, including exchanges with other national grids. 
The Slovak grid has an "installed capacity" of 6,830 megawatts 
and supplies the national economy with approximately 25 million 
megawatt hours annually. Its 400 kilovolt power transmission 
system consists of 1,520 km of transmission lines and the 220 
kilovolt power transmission system of 964 km of transmission 
lines. The 400 kilovolt transmission system will be integrated 
into the West European system of transit and exchange of 
electricity (UCPTE) by 1997. (Bratislava HOSPODARSKE NOVINY in 
Slovak 29 Apr 94 p 2; Bratislava PRAVDA in Slovak 30 Apr 94 p 2) 
  HOTEL BEDS: As of 30 June 1993, there were 40,800 beds in 
"commercial hotel facilities" in Slovakia, 4,500 beds in 
"commercial non-hotel facilities," 4,500 beds in trade unions' 
recreational facilities, 10,900 beds in spas, 50,000 beds in 
company-owned recreational facilities, and some 200,000 beds in 
private recreational facilities, according to data of the 
Tourism Section operating under the Slovak Ministry of Economy. 
Some 65,000 people are employed in tourism services and an 
additional approximately 100,000 people in auxiliary services. 
Foreign exchange earnings from tourism amounted to $344.8 
million in 1993, but the Tourism Section expects them to reach 
$600 million by 1996. According to Lucia Rozborova, press 
secretary of the Tourism Section, the so-called small-scale 
privatization in tourism, which involved 2,700 "operational 
units," has been wound up. Two state enterprises -- Interhotel 
Tatry and Interhotel Bratislava -- will be privatized within the 
second wave of privatization. (Bratislava HOSPODARSKE NOVINY in 
Slovak 29 Apr 94 p 4; Bratislava NARODNA OBRODA in Slovak 2 May 
94 p 6) 
  CZECH BANK MAIN SHAREHOLDER: After the annual meeting of 
shareholders of the Otcina insurance company, held on 25 April, 
the Czech Agrobanka Prague became the main shareholder in 
Otcina, with 36.1 percent. The other shareholders are the 
Austrian Bundeslaender Versicherung and the Slovak Ministry of 
Agriculture. Otcina, which offers its clients a range of 40 
insurance products, operates 19 branches in Slovakia and the 
Czech Republic. (Bratislava SME in Slovak 29 Apr 94 p 2) 
  BRITISH LOAN: According to Julius Binder, director general 
of Vodohospodarska Vystavba (Hydraulic Engineering Works) 
Bratislava, the company has obtained a $15 million credit from 
an unspecified "London bank" to finance the completion of the 
second stage of the Gabcikovo hydroelectric power project. The 
rate of interest is 9 percent. (Bratislava REPUBLIKA in Slovak 
30 Apr 94 p 2) 
  BUS PRODUCTION WITH HUNGARY: Preparations for the 
establishment of Ikarus-Asko, a joint Hungarian-Slovak venture 
for the production of buses, have almost been completed. The 
joint venture, the seat of which will be in Kosice, will be 
involved in the assembly of Ikarus buses for the Slovak market, 
using components made in Slovakia. In its first year of 
operation, Ikarus-Asko plans to assemble 35 buses; in subsequent 
years, it plans to increase the number to 50. (Bratislava SMENA 
in Slovak 30 Apr 94 p 5) 
  CONSTRUCTION WORKFORCE REDUCED: Ivan Steis, head of the 
Building Production and Marketing Department at the Slovak 
Ministry of Economy, told the daily PRAVDA that the workforce in 
construction has dropped from 240,000 in 1990 to today's 
115,000. Of those 115,000, Steis said, 30,000 to 50,000 are 
"artificially employed," that is, they could be made redundant 
if the level of labor productivity were "optimal." In the 
ministry official's opinion, besides the conversion of the arms 
industry, the decline of the construction branch currently 
represents the biggest problem of the Slovak economy. The 
volume of building output continues to decline by 30 to 40 
percent annually. (Bratislava PRAVDA in Slovak 2 May 94 pp 1, 5) 
  FOREIGN TRADE DEFICIT: Slovak exports amounted to Sk15.286 
billion and Slovak imports to Sk15.321 billion in March 1994, 
according to data provided by Jaromir Kalincak, director general 
of the Central Customs Administration. Slovak foreign trade for 
the first three months of the year shows a deficit, with exports 
(Sk43.554 billion) falling more than Sk3.7 billion short of 
imports (Sk47.297 billion). (Bratislava NARODNA OBRODA in Slovak 
3 May 94 p 6) 
  WASTE DISPOSAL: Some 8 million tonnes of brown and red mud 
have accumulated in the four decades of the operation of the 
aluminum plant at Ziar nad Hronom. To prevent the spreading of 
pollutants contained in the mud, a huge bentonite "tub" will be 
built at a cost of Sk140 million. The entire waste disposal 
site will cover an area of 40 hectares, with the walls reaching 
35 to 38 meters above ground level. (Bratislava SMENA in Slovak 
3 May 94 p 1) The implementation of this ecological project is 
a condition set by the European Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development for releasing the first $40 million installment of a 
credit for the modernization of aluminum production at Ziar nad 
Hronom. (Bratislava HOSPODARSKE NOVINY in Slovak 3 May 94 p 2) 
  PRIVATE FARMING: Milan Pasmik, chairman of the Association 
of Land Owners and Agricultural Entrepreneurs of Slovakia, 
estimates that 12,500 to 13,000 private farmers are engaged in 
primary agricultural production as their sole source of income 
and another 5,500 to 6,000 farmers, mostly in mountainous areas, 
are engaged in farming, particularly raising livestock, while 
simultaneously being employed elsewhere. (Bratislava SME in 
Slovak 4 May 94 p 5) 
  TRADE MISSION IN CROATIA: An 80-member Slovak trade mission, 
the largest ever of its kind, arrived in Zagreb on 2 May with 
the aim of establishing contacts with Croatian partners. Croatia 
is one of only a few countries, with which Slovakia has a trade 
surplus. Trade turnover between the two countries reached a 
volume of $58 million in 1993, with Slovakia exporting $45 
million worth of goods (mostly metallurgical products, tractors, 
beef cattle, and meat) and importing $13 million worth of goods 
(chemicals and preparations for the food industry). (Bratislava 
HOSPODARSKE NOVINY in Slovak 4 May 94 pp 1, 2; Bratislava 
NARODNA OBRODA in Slovak 4 May 94 p 6) 
  POWER FOR IRON WORKS: "Comprehensive testing" of a new small 
hydroelectric power station on the Hornad river at Mlynsky nahon 
near Kosice started on 3 May. Once fully operative, the power 
station, which was built at a cost of Sk29 million, will supply 
electricity to the East Slovak Iron Works. (Bratislava 
HOSPODARSKE NOVINY in Slovak 4 May 94 p 2) 
  FEWER POTATOES: Whereas in 1993 potatoes were grown on more 
than 16,000 hectares in Slovakia, this year they will be grown 
on only 14,600 hectares, according to the Association of Potato 
Growers-Slovsolanum. The declining interest in seed potatoes, 
which is associated with the unfavorable financial situation of 
agricultural cooperatives and the resulting marketing problems 
of growers, is particularly striking. Whereas in the early 
nineties seed potatoes were grown on about 6,000 hectares in 
Slovakia, last year they were harvested from only 2,480 
hectares. (Bratislava HOSPODARSKE NOVINY in Slovak 4 May 94 p 3) 
  MONETARY REPORT: The Slovak National Bank (NBS) Banking 
Council approved on 4 May the "Report on Monetary Development in 
the Slovak Republic in 1993." The report states that the 
current account of the balance of payments ended with a deficit 
of $559 million in 1993, while the Slovak Republic's overall 
balance ended in a surplus of $58.5 million. The deficit of the 
current account of the balance of payments affected the 
development of indebtedness. The Slovak Republic's overall 
gross indebtedness in foreign exchange (Slovak Government, NBS, 
and commercial sector) increased from $2.98 billion on 1 January 
1993 to $3.62 billion by the end of the year (including debt to 
the Czech Republic). The NBS's total foreign exchange reserves 
(including gold assessed in book value) increased in the course 
of 1993 from $410 million to $468.5 million and commercial 
banks' reserves from $491 million to $953 million. (Bratislava 
HOSPODARSKE NOVINY in Slovak 5 May 94 p 2) 
  PENSION INCREASES: The average old-age pension went up from 
1,432 korunas in 1989 to Sk2,367 at the end of 1993. By 
comparison, average wages increased in the same period from 
3,090 korunas to Sk5,352. The increase in the average old-age 
pension (65.5 percent) thus trailed behind the increase in 
average wages (73.2 percent). It trailed even more markedly 
behind the growth in the cost of living. The cost of living 
index for pensioners' households rose 148.2 percent between 1 
January 1989 and 31 December 1993. (Bratislava HOSPODARSKE 
NOVINY in Slovak 5 May 94 p 7) 
  CONSUMER PRICES: Consumer prices went up 0.5 percent in 
March 1994, compared with February, according to Slovak 
Statistical Office data. Food prices went up 0.1 percent, 
prices of services 0.5 percent, prices of non-food items 0.6 
percent, and prices of restaurant meals 1.1 percent. The slower 
growth of food prices was caused by a 0.3 percent decrease in 
meat prices and a 6.3 percent decrease in the price of eggs. 
The prices of other food products increased by between 0.2 
percent (alcoholic beverages) and 2 percent (oils and fats). 
Consumer prices at the end of March were 2.0 percent higher 
than at the end of December 1993. While food prices increased 
only 1.5 percent in the first quarter of 1994, prices of 
non-food items went up 1.9 percent, prices of restaurant meals 
2.6 percent, and prices of public services 3.0 percent. The 
development of consumer prices also affected the development of 
the cost of living index. The cost of living in farmers' 
households went up 0.5 percent in March, compared with February, 
in employees' households 0.4 percent, and in pensioners' 
households 0.3 percent. (Bratislava HOSPODARSKE NOVINY in Slovak 
5 May 94 p 8) 
  COMPANY LOSS: The Vychodoslovenske Strojarne (East Slovak 
Engineering Works, VSS) a.s. incurred a loss of Sk37 million in 
the first quarter of the year, Sk15 million more than expected. 
The company has more than Sk500 million tied up in inventories, 
Sk126 million of which are unsold finished products. Despite the 
opening of new possibilities on the Chinese market, where VSS 
wants to export building machinery, the management had to 
introduce a four-day working week (Monday through Thursday) from 
mid-April until the end of May, following an agreement with the 
trade union organization. (Bratislava REPUBLIKA in Slovak 6 May 
94 p 3) 
  PRIVATE SCHOOLS: Of the 179 high schools in Slovakia, 26 are 
church-run and 11 private; of the 340 specialized secondary 
schools, 11 are church-run and 9 private; and of the 327 
secondary vocational schools, 4 are church-run and 12 private. 
(Bratislava SME in Slovak 6 May 94 p 2) 
  PRICES ALTER EATING HABITS: The liberalization of food 
prices 
has brought about major changes in the eating habits of the 
population in the last three years, some of which may have an 
adverse long-term impact on the population's health. Per capita 
consumption of meat, for example, declined from 84.0 kg in 1989 
to 70.4 kg in 1992, consumption of poultry from 15.2 to 12.8 kg, 
consumption of milk from 115.7 to 91.9 kg, consumption of cheese 
from 6.6 to 4.4 kg, consumption of butter from 6.8 to 4.2 kg, 
consumption of cereals from 112.1 to 104.0 kg, and consumption 
of fruit from 60.0 to 58.0 kg. On the other hand, there have 
been increases in the consumption of sugar (from 34.8 to 38.6 
kg), potatoes (from 77.6 to 80.0 kg), pulses (from 1.9 to 2.2 
kg), and vegetables (from 106.0 to 107.0 kg). (Bratislava 
REPUBLIKA ZDRAVOTNICTVO Supplement in Slovak 7 May 94 p 3) 
  MINE PRIVATIZATION: On 7 May, employees of the Dolina Mine 
in 
Velky Krtis set up a shareholding company, the first in the 
mining sector in Slovakia, with the aim of privatizing the mine. 
The shareholding company's capital stock represents more than 1 
million Slovak korunas (Sk), to which the approximately 1,500 
employees of the mine contributed Sk500 each and the top and 
middle- level management the remaining 30 percent. The company 
seeks the privatization of the state-owned mine, the book value 
of which represents Sk530 million, for a "symbolic price." It 
promises to "stabilize the workforce" of the Dolina Mine, the 
largest employer in Velky Krtis district, which has one of the 
highest rates of unemployment in Slovakia (over 24 percent). 
The mine plans to extract 600,000 metric tons of coal this 
year. (Bratislava SMENA in Slovak 9 May 94 p 5; Bratislava 
HOSPODARSKE NOVINY in Slovak 9 May 94 p 3) 
  CLOTHING EXPORTER: The Ozeta Trencin a.s., the largest 
manufacturer of men's ready-made clothes in Slovakia, more than 
doubled its profits in 1993, to Sk51.5 million. Ozeta, which is 
one of 10 companies whose shares are quoted on the listed market 
of the Bratislava Securities Exchange (BCPB), produced 2,892,000 
pieces of clothing in 1993, 92 percent of which it exported. 
The biggest export markets are the Benelux countries, the 
destination of 30 percent of Ozeta's exports, followed by other 
West European countries (23.8 percent), and the United States 
and Canada (21.3 percent). The company, which invested more 
than Sk138 million last year, expects to increase output 10 
percent and profits 30 percent this year. (Bratislava SLOVENSKY 
DENNIK in Slovak 10 May 94 p 4) 
  HARVEST RESULTS: The extremely dry weather in 1993, coupled 
with the shortage of quality inputs as a result of the 
insolvency of agricultural companies, adversely affected the 
1993 harvest. Even though the area under grain crops was 
expanded by more than 36,000 hectares (to 845,000 hectares), the 
harvest fell 400,400 metric tons short of the 1992 harvest and 
765,600 metric tons short of the 1990-1992 average. The harvest 
of leguminous crops was equally weak; it totalled 123,000 metric 
tons, which was 34,600 metric tons (22 percent) less than the 
year before. Production of beans and lentils declined more than 
50 percent. In spite of an increase in the area under oil- 
bearing crops to 71,300 hectares, the production of oil seeds 
reached only 124,000 metric tons, which was 7,100 metric tons 
less than in 1992 and 86,500 metric tons less than in 1991. The 
dry weather affected, in particular, sunflowers, the per-hectare 
yield of which reached only two metric tons. The sugar beet 
harvest totalled 1.128 million metric tons, which represented a 
per-hectare yield of 34.26 metric tons. Sugar beets were 
harvested from 32,900 hectares last year, compared with 
approximately 45,000 the year before. On the other hand, there 
was a good harvest of potatoes. It reached 856,700 metric tons 
and the per-hectare yield of 18.15 metric tons was 5.3 metric 
tons higher than in 1992. To reduce the potato glut, the State 
Market Regulation Fund purchased 100,000 metric tons of potatoes 
for export. Only 18,200 metric tons have been actually exported 
and 78,800 metric tons are still in warehouses, of which more 
than 7,000 metric tons are no longer suitable for human 
consumption. The extremely dry weather also influenced the 
production of bulk fodder. Converted to hay, the harvest of 
bulk fodder totalled 3.28 million metric tons and fell 422,300 
metric tons short of the 1992 harvest. (Bratislava SLOVENSKY 
DENNIK in Slovak 10 May 94 p 8) 
  SHEEP REDUCTION: The number of sheep in Slovakia has 
declined from 750,000 in 1988 to 250,000 this year. The main 
reason for the declining interest in sheep farming is the 
reduction in the procurement price of wool. As a result of the 
reduced number of sheep, some 200,000 hectares of pastures and 
meadows are not in use and are overgrowing with weeds. 
(Bratislava NARODNA OBRODA in Slovak 10 May 94 p 6) 
  ECOLOGICAL COMPRESSORS: A new production facility for 
"ecological compressors" was put into operation in the Calex 
a.s. refrigerator plant at Zlate Moravce on 10 May. The 
compressors, which are free of chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs), will 
be made under license TO the South Korean Samsung Electronics 
company. The annual capacity of the plant is more than 1.5 
million units. The project, which required an investment of 
more than Sk8 billion, is the largest investment project in the 
Slovak consumer goods industry. It should raise Calex's ability 
to compete internationally as Germany and the Czech Republic, 
for example, have banned the import of refrigerators and 
freezers containing CFCs. (Bratislava HOSPODARSKE NOVINY in 
Slovak 10 May 94 p 3) 
  VSZ PAYS DIVIDENDS: The annual meeting of shareholders of 
the 
largest Slovak company, the East Slovak Iron Works (VSZ), was 
convened in Kosice on 10 May to discuss and approve the 
company's annual report. According to the report, the company's 
proceeds went up from Sk3.119 billion in 1992 to Sk5.219 billion 
in 1993, while costs went up from Sk2.889 billion to Sk5.024 
billion. The company thus made an after-tax profit of 
approximately Sk196 million, which was 82.7 percent of the 
projected profit of Sk236 million. The general meeting decided 
that the sum of almost Sk154 million be paid out in dividends. 
This represents approximately Sk9 for each of the more than 
16.5 million VSZ shares. The dividend will be paid out on 15 
October 1994 to those shareholders who were in possession of VSZ 
shares at the end of 1993. (Bratislava SME in Slovak 11 May 94 
pp 1, 2) In the first quarter of 1994, VSZ made a profit of 
Sk462 million, which is 186 percent of the profit planned for 
the whole year. (Bratislava HOSPODARSKE NOVINY in Slovak 11 May 
94 pp 1, 2) 
  LAYOFF PROTEST: Some 2,000 trade unionists and employees of 
the SES (Slovak Power Engineering Works) Tlmace company 
demonstrated in Tlmace on 10 May against the management's 
proposal to lay off 426 employees. The management cites "lack 
of orders" as the reason for the layoffs. The demonstrators, 
however, blame the top management for the company's current 
problems. (Bratislava SME in Slovak 11 May 94 p 2) 
  ARMS INDUSTRY JOB LOSSES: Jozef Krumpolec, chairman of KOVO, 
the trade union of metal workers, estimates that 44,000 people 
in Slovakia have lost their jobs due to the conversion of the 
arms industry. (Bratislava HOSPODARSKE NOVINY in Slovak 11 May 
94 p 2) 
  BANKS ENDANGERED: Citing "well-informed sources," the 
Bratislava daily PRAVDA reported that "at least three major 
banks in the Slovak Republic" are "endangered" and "may soon 
face problems similar to those of Banka Bohemia and its numerous 
depositors in neighboring Czech Republic." According to the 
unnamed source, the banks' credits are covered by real estate 
collateral whose value falls drastically short of the value of 
the extended loans, often on the basis of "greatly overvalued" 
expert appraisals of real estate. The three banks reportedly 
also concluded credit agreements with clients, "about whom it is 
generally known that they do not pay off previously extended 
loans." According to PRAVDA, "an important role is played by 
bribes. The commission for the bank employee is approximately 
10 percent of the loaned amount." Another common practice, 
according to PRAVDA, is to reschedule loans instead of demanding 
outstanding payments in court. This creates the impression that 
the bank has no outstanding claims, which "distorts the actual 
situation in the bank's conduct of economic affairs." 
(Bratislava PRAVDA in Slovak 11 May 94 pp 1, 3) 
  FACTORY WORKERS STRIKE: The approximately 700 employees of 
the Euroobuv footwear plant in Komarno went on strike on 11 May. 
They demand a 40-percent increase in base pay, "decent 
treatment" by the management, and the provision of protective 
gear. (Bratislava NARODNA OBRODA in Slovak 12 May 94 p 2) 
Euroobuv is a subsidiary of a German footwear concern with 
production plants all over Europe. It leased the Komarno plant 
from the SIPOX company and is now in only its second month of 
operation. The management has offered to raise the base pay by 
Sk300 and to peg any additional pay increases to performance. 
While the strikers' representatives claim that the performance 
norms are "scarcely fulfillable," the management is of the 
opinion that "every worker should be able to start exceeding 
them within three months," once he masters the new technology. 
Meanwhile, the gap between the management and the strikers seems 
to be widening. The management gave all protesters an immediate 
notice "because of breach of labor discipline." It is willing 
to rehire everyone who is ready to accept its terms. (Bratislava 
PRAVDA in Slovak 13 May 94 pp 1, 2) 
  STOCK MARKET DROPS: Share prices on the Bratislava 
Securities Exchange continued to decline in April. The SIX 30 
index (comprising the 30 largest industrial companies) dropped 
from 1,330.79 on 8 April (highest April value) to 917.73 on 26 
April (lowest April value); the SIX 50 index (comprising the 50 
largest companies, including banks and other non- industrial 
companies) dropped from 1,416.20 to 1,028.10; and the SIX ALL 
index (comprising all publicly traded companies) dropped from 
966.51 to 752.43. The decline continued in the first days of 
May. By 11 May, the SIX 30 index dropped to 868.47, the SIX 50 
index to 983.08, and the SIX ALL index to 713.21. (Bratislava 
HOSPODARSKE NOVINY BURZOVE NOVINY Supplement 12 May 94 pp 1, 3) 
  VW TO RAISE INVESTMENT: Finance Minister Rudolf Filkus 
received the management of the Volkswagen Bratislava company 
(VW) on 12 May. The management informed the minister of the 
planned increase in the company's base capital by 49 million 
German marks [DM], which will increase the German concern's 
stake in the company to DM100 million. (Bratislava PRAVDA in 
Slovak 13 May 94 p 2) 
  GLASS FACTORY STRIKE ALERT: Employees of the Skloobal 
Nemsova a.s. went on "strike alert" on 10 May to draw attention 
to the urgent need for the general overhaul of one of the glass 
tanks for the production of container glass. The company's 
trade union organization warns that a possible accident would 
put the plant out of operation for a long time. It demands that 
the National Property Fund, which owns 100 percent of Skloobal's 
shares, take over the financial guarantee for the project. 
According to the trade unionists, the pertinent contract for 
the overhaul, worth 530 million Slovak korunas (Sk), has already 
been signed with a Swiss firm and every month that the start of 
the general overhaul is delayed costs the company Sk12 million 
in financial penalties. (Bratislava SLOVENSKY DENNIK in Slovak 
11 May 94 p 2) An extraordinary meeting of the primary trade 
union organization at Skloobal Nemsova on 17 May decided to 
extend the strike alert until 7 June. It reserved the right to 
resort to "extreme means of pressure within the framework of the 
law" if the problem of financing the general overhaul and 
modernization of one of the melting facilities is not resolved 
by then. (Bratislava PRAVDA in Slovak 18 May 94 p 3) 
  SLOVENSKA BANKA ENDED: An extraordinary meeting of the 
Slovenska Banka a.s. (Slovak Bank shareholding company), held at 
Banska Bystrica on 12 May, decided to abolish the company, after 
the Slovak National Bank (NBS) Banking Council refused to issue 
SLOVENSKA Banka a banking license. The National Property Fund 
(FNM) as the sole shareholder in Slovenska Banka also recalled 
the company's five-member board of directors and its seven- 
member supervisory board. At the same time, it decided to set 
up the Carpatia Consulta a.s., the aim of which is to prepare by 
12 October the founding of Banka Carpatia (Carpathia Bank). 
(Bratislava SME in Slovak 13 May 94 p 1) According to FNM 
representatives, the decision to abandon the Slovenska Banka 
project was influenced by the inability of the bank's steering 
bodies to comply with the demand of the NBS Banking Council that 
private capital have a majority stake in all newly established 
banks. The FNM's stake in Banka Carpathia should be only Sk196 
million (34 million), with the city of Banska Bystrica 
contributing Sk77 million (13 percent), and private shareholders 
the remaining Sk304 million. Banka Carpathia's head office will 
be in the "Gastrocentrum" building in Banska Bystrica; the value 
of the building represents the contribution of the city of 
Banska Bystrica to the bank's founding capital. (Bratislava 
PRAVDA in Slovak 14 May 94 p 2) O. Varga, chairman of the 
recalled supervisory board of Slovenska Banka a.s., called the 
FNM's course of action "politically motivated" and expressed 
doubts as to whether the required private capital would be found 
to set up Banka Carpathia by the planned deadline. (Bratislava 
NARODNA OBRODA in Slovak 13 May 94 p 2) 
  JOINT BRICK FACTORY: The most modern brickyard in Slovakia 
opened at Zlate Moravce on 13 May, in the presence of Deputy 
Prime Minister Ivan Simko, Finance Minister Rudolf Filkus, and 
the Austrian ambassador to Slovakia. Wienerberger Slovenske 
Tehelne (Wienerberger Slovak Brickyard) Ltd., which is fully 
automated, was built at a cost of Sk650 million and will employ 
45 people. Partners in this joint Austrian-Slovak venture are 
the Austrian Wienerberger Ziegelindustrie AG (65 percent), the 
Hydrostav a.s. (34 percent), and the city of Zlate Moravce (1 
percent). The brickyard's annual production capacity is 80 
million bricks. (Bratislava SMENA in Slovak 14 May 94 p 2; 
Bratislava SLOVENSKY DENNIK in Slovak 14 May 94 p 2) 
  SPA PRIVATIZATION: Prime Minister Jozef Moravcik received 
representatives of the Union of Slovak Spas on 13 May to discuss 
with them their proposal for the privatization of spa resorts. 
Privatization Minister Milan Janicina said after the meeting 
that the National Property Fund will not own more than 20 
percent of the spas' shares, so as not to obstruct the influx of 
foreign capital. He also agreed with the union's proposal that 
at least 10 percent of the spas' shares be transferred free of 
charge to the relevant communities. Only in the case of the 
Piestany spa, which represents a "special category," will the 
ministry propose that the free shares for the community be 
restricted to five percent. (Bratislava SLOVENSKY DENNIK in 
Slovak 14 May 94 p 2) 
  COUPON BOOKS: The Slovak Government approved on 14 May the 
draft decree on the issue of investment coupons. Under the 
decree, the price of the coupon book for the second wave of 
coupon privatization will be differentiated -- Sk700 for 
citizens born in 1934 or earlier and Sk1,000 for all other 
citizens. (Bratislava NARODNA OBRODA in Slovak 16 May 94 p 1) 
  CERTIFICATES RAISE PRICES: In an interview for the 
Bratislava daily SME, representatives of several Slovak food 
importing companies contested Agriculture Minister Koncos' 
assertion that the requirement for quality certificates for 
imported food, introduced on 1 May, would have no influence on 
food prices. E. Vyrostko, representative of the ANAT company 
from Presov, admitted that his company, which imports food and 
vegetables, raised its prices because it must pay 
Sk2,000-Sk2,500 for each certificate (a certificate is required 
for each sample of imported goods). J. Topor, owner of the 
Ovocentrum company from Kosice, said that his firm now includes 
not only the cost of certificates in its prices, but also the 
cost of trips to Bratislava where the certificates are issued. 
Topor also complained that, before the certificates are issued, 
the tested fruit and vegetable samples are "rendered worthless." 
(Bratislava SME in Slovak 16 may 94 p 2) 
  OBSTRUCT FOOD IMPORTS: Another article in SME noted that 
custom officers' demand for quality certificates for imported 
food was becoming a "nightmare" for many importers. According 
to the article, Slovak authorities require that food importers 
furnish a confirmation that the producer of the imported goods 
is well known to the state bodies of his country. "It is 
difficult to go and meet a producer in Turkey or Malaysia and 
convince him that Slovak authorities want to see his production 
license. If the producer does not have such a document, should 
I find an independent state body in the relevant country and 
ask, for instance, a Spanish authority to issue a document for a 
Spanish producer? I would also have to find and pay an 
interpreter. And what about a case when six Slovak importers 
want to import goods produced by a single firm," SME quotes a 
Slovak businessmen who "preferred not to order any goods in the 
past four weeks" as saying. Another businessman, who imports 
chocolate from a distributor with exclusive rights for the whole 
Eastern Europe, told SME: "I cannot imagine how I will explain 
to him that he must obtain a certificate for me." According to 
the daily, most entrepreneurs intend to include the costs of 
hunting for certificates at home and abroad and the cost of 
translations in their prices. (Bratislava SME in Slovak 21 May 
94 p 1) 
  FIRST QUARTER TRADE: The Slovak Republic imported goods 
worth Sk47.3 billion and exported goods worth Sk43.6 billion in 
the first three months of the year, according to Slovak 
Statistical Office data. The balance of trade deficit amounted 
to Sk3.743 billion. The most important export markets in the 
first quarter of the year were the Czech Republic, the 
destination of 37.9 percent of all Slovak exports, followed by 
Hungary (5.5 percent), and Russia (3.6 percent). Most Slovak 
imports came from the Czech Republic (30.2 percent), Russia (22 
percent), and the FRG (11.3 percent). Compared with the first 
three months of 1993, Slovakia managed to increase its exports 
especially to Italy (by 73.4 percent), the FRG (47.8 percent), 
and Hungary (40.3 percent). Imports increased, particularly from 
the United States (198.3 percent) and France (174.9 percent). 
(Bratislava SME in Slovak 17 May 94 p 2) 
  FOREIGN INVESTMENT: Foreign capital invested in firms in 
Slovakia reached the sum of Sk11.5 billion ($388 million) by the 
end of the first quarter of the year, which was Sk723 million 
(6.7 percent) more than at the end of 1993. The number of 
Slovak firms with a foreign ownership stake reached 5,719 at the 
end of March 1994, 358 more than at the end of December 1993, 
with most foreign capital going into firms in Bratislava (54.4 
percent), Poprad district (7.8 percent), and Humenne district 
(7.1 percent). In the first quarter of the year, 35 
organizations with foreign capital participation ceased to exist 
(compared with 49 in 1993 as a whole) and another 80 
organizations (65 in 1993) are "in liquidation." In 77.7 percent 
of all organizations with foreign capital involvement, the 
foreign partner's stake does not exceed Sk100,000 and in only 
1.5 percent of these organizations does it exceed the sum of 
Sk10 million. Austria continues to top the ranking of foreign 
investors, accounting for 23.4 percent of all foreign 
investments in Slovakia. It is followed by Germany (21 
percent), the Czech Republic (13 percent), and the United States 
(12 percent). (Bratislava SME in Slovak 17 May 94 p 2; 
Bratislava PRAVDA FINANCNE SPRAVODAJSTVO Supplement 18 May 94 p 
4) 
  BRATISLAVA REALTY VALUE: The results of stock-taking of the 
value of real assets owned by the city of Bratislava show that 
13.3 percent of the city's area is owned by the community. The 
city owns almost 4,900 hectares of land worth more than Sk73 
billion (based on an average price of Sk1,500 per square meter) 
and more than 4,400 buildings worth Sk16.5 billion. Apart from 
this, the city has a stake in the Istrobanka. The overall value 
of property owned by the city thus represents more than Sk90 
billion. (Bratislava SME in Slovak 17 May 94 p 2) 
  BELOW SUBSISTENCE LEVEL: According to the results of a 
"microcensus" commissioned by the Ministry of Labor, Social 
Affairs, and the Family, 9.5 percent of households (76 percent 
of which were families with children) had in 1993 an income 
below the subsistence minimum (which averages Sk1,600 a month 
per household member). Another 42 percent of households had 
income in the range of 1 to 1.5 times the subsistence minimum 
and only 15 percent of households an income higher than twice 
the subsistence minimum. The survey also revealed that the 
number of families that identify themselves as "poor" increased 
from 10.7 percent in 1992 to 13.4 percent in 1993. (Bratislava 
SME in Slovak 17 May 94 p 3) 
  LABOR DISPUTE SETTLED: The labor dispute in the Euroobuv 
footwear factory in Komarno ended in an agreement between the 
employer and representatives of employees on 17 May. Under the 
terms of the agreement, all 500 Euroobuv employees are to return 
to work on 18 May after a week-long strike. The management 
undertook to withdraw all notices given for "breach of labor 
discipline," to raise base pay 10 percent (instead of the 40 
percent demanded by the strikers), and to peg any additional 
wage increases to performance. The representatives of employees 
pledged to make up for all missed shifts (five working days) by 
the end of June, by coming to work on Saturdays. (Bratislava 
PRAVDA in Slovak 18 May 94 p 2) 
  BUDGET DEFICIT DECLINE: The state budget deficit declined 
from Sk6 billion at the end of March 1994 to Sk3.86 billion at 
the end of April 1994. Budget revenues amounted to Sk13.4 
billion in April, which was Sk3 billion more than projected. 
(Bratislava SMENA in Slovak 18 May 94 p 1) 

