BFN 

  [Text] Russian presidential aide Georgiy Satarov believes 
that the initiative advanced by the Interfax news agency on the 
involvement of the mass media in the drafting of an agreement to 
reach civic accord in Russia "is very useful and timely." In an 
interview with Interfax on Monday he said that the contribution 
of the media for the creation of an atmosphere of civic accord 
in Russia may be very great, since the media is commonly 
believed to be the "fourth power." 
  Satarov said that "so far the contribution was not always 
positive because the reports were often sensational, alarming 
and not always balanced." He said that the shortcomings were 
understandable. They emerged because over the past few years 
the media was always in opposition and this stand was once 
useful and even historically progressive. 
  The opposition "niche," occupied by the press, determined 
until recently its bias towards giving assessments and sticking 
to ideology, believes Satarov. Now that the present democratic 
regime has a real opposition, the previous role of the press is 
now outdated, he added. 
  Satarov voiced hope that the Interfax initiative on the 
media's involvement in the negotiations on an agreement to reach 
a civil accord in Russia will urge the press to occupy its 
natural position as an objective reporter, with the relevant 
political and controlling functions. "I believe such a position 
by the media will help Russia achieve a political and social 
stabilization," Satarov said. 

