BFN 

<F P=106> [By special correspondent Maria Elena Gil] </F>
  [Text] Accra, 8 May (PL) -- Tonight, Ghanaian President 
Jerry John Rawlings greeted Cuban President Fidel Castro, who 
arrived in this capital at 1030 on a service stopover en route 
to South Africa, where he will attend the inauguration of Nelson 
Mandela. Rawlings expressed his satisfaction at receiving the 
Cuban leader and viewed his visit here as official despite its 
brevity. 
  Castro is accompanied by Foreign Minister Roberto Robaina; 
Ricardo Alarcon, president of the National Assembly of the 
People's Government; and Rosa Elena Simeon, minister of 
environment, science, and technology. This same delegation 
participated in the First World Conference on Sustainable 
Development of Small Island States, which ended on 6 May in 
Bridgetown, Barbados. 
  Speaking to reporters before leaving for Barbados, the Cuban 
leader considered it a political miracle that Mandela managed to 
conciliate the different ethnic forces in his country in such a 
way that the first interracial elections were successfully held 
with the triumph of Mandela's party, the African National 
Congress (ANC). 
  "Mandela is the perfect man, the only who with the talent, 
necessary wisdom [word indistinct] current political moment in 
South Africa," the Caribbean statesman stated. 
  "Cuba's commitment to Africa is a historic one." We do not 
want to speak of our contribution to the South African people's 
cause, because they -- the ANC and Mandela -- have made the most 
important contribution. 
  Nelson Mandela will be inaugurated this coming Tuesday, 10 
May, during a ceremony in Capetown, which will be attended by 
many heads of state and government from all parts of the world. 

