CSO 

<F P=106> [Article by Heinz Dieterich Steffan] </F>
  [Text] Havana--To become or remain one of the "first class" 
nations, says Konrad Seitz, director of the Strategic Planning 
Department of the German Ministry of Foreign Affairs, there is 
only one route: to master one of the five key technologies of 
the future world market: computers, biotechnology, space 
technology, new forms of energy, and new materials. 
  Of these technologies, the most important, says Noam 
Chomsky, 
is biotechnology. 
  To this opinion of the German strategist should be added a 
second condition for admission or permanent membership in the 
First World: being an independent state with sufficient autonomy 
and political determination, in dealing with the major world 
power centers, to defend a development project based on national 
interests. 
  In light of both of these parameters, the future of the 
Latin 
American countries appears dismal. With the exception of Costa 
Rica -- which is not representative of Latin America -- Cuba is 
the only country that meets these two requisites, and, 
therefore, the only one with a good probability of leaving 
underdevelopment behind. 
  The real independence of the Cuban state requires no further 
demonstration. And of these five technologies of the future, 
Cuba is now one of the world leaders (with the United States) in 
the one that is most important: biotechnology and genetic 
engineering. By the year 2000 this market will have a volume of 
$200 billion, and Cuba will dominate a large part of it. 
  The following report presents a summary of numerous 
interviews with directors of Cuban biomedical and biotechnology 
institutions, and provides the most extensive account that has 
yet been published abroad on the spectacular advances made by 
the Cuban Biotechnology School. This lack of information is not 
due to any Cuban clamping down on the flow of information, but 
instead to the virtual censorship of reports of any success of 
the Cuban process, a censorship that prevails in almost all of 
the Western communications media. 
<H5>  AIDS Vaccine </H5>
  As in other laboratories all over the world, Cuba is also 
doing intensive work on the scourge of AIDS that, according to 
WHO [World Health Organization] estimates, has to date afflicted 
12 million people. In many countries, it is now one of the 
leading causes of death. (In Mexico it was in fourth place in 
1991.) 
  The Cuban Biotechnology School's battle against AIDS is 
being 
waged on three fronts: the development of a vaccine against the 
virus; the design of accurate and inexpensive diagnostic systems 
for massive use in blood banks and with the population; and 
developing medications to treat "opportunistic" infections, that 
is, diseases that occur because of the AIDS-induced weakening of 
the immune system. 
  The CIGB [Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology Center] is 
one of the most important centers working to develop an AIDS 
vaccine. In a 62,000-square meter facility near Havana, over 600 
scientists, most of whom are young, produce 160 different 
products, 30 of them developed through genetic engineering. 
  Its scientific staff has expertise in all of the modern 
methodology necessary, including genetic engineering, molecular 
biology and immunology, and advanced biochemistry, and it has 
the most advanced research and production hardware in the world, 
as revealed by an inspection tour of its labs and industrial 
facilities. 
  Dr. Manuel Limonta, the director of the institution and of 
its scientific board, states: "Cuba will have an AIDS vaccine by 
2000 or earlier." 
  He says they have "a working group that is developing a 
vaccine against AIDS using genetic engineering technology to 
prevent the disease." This is a "strong group" which has already 
been working on this program for "a long period of time, and the 
group has produced significant results." 
  Limonta did not describe these "significant results," but 
from other sources we deduced that they have managed to isolate 
and characterize the specific viral strains responsible for HIV, 
and that they are now in the laboratory testing phase. 
  The CIGB director expresses confidence that they will manage 
to "bring AIDS under control" immunologically, and states 
categorically: "We are going to develop a vaccine." 
  [Dieterich Steffan] Before the French or Americans do? 
  [Limonta] I do not know if it will happen before, but I 
believe it may be before 2000. That is my personal belief. I 
think it may be earlier than that, or it may be around that 
time. That is my view of the matter. 
  If it were not Dr. Limonta making this pronouncement, it 
might appear somewhat rash. But Limonta is a "heavyweight" in 
this field, and his personal achievements and those of the 
institute he directs lend authority to his assertion. 
  In support of this, the director of the CNIC [National 
Center 
for Scientific Research], Dr. Carlos Gutierrez, says that 
Limonta and his team "practically live in their labs when they 
are trying to solve something"; they are "extraordinarily 
dedicated to the work they are doing, and if they make such a 
statement, they are capable of doing it." He recalled their 
achievement with interferon as an example. 
  When Limonta, working with a small team of young 
researchers, 
proposed producing interferon in Cuba, "people were talking of a 
minimum time frame of three to four years; they did it in 42 
days--a truly record time, as everyone recognizes." 
  On the lengthy list of the successes of the CIGB and its 
director--many achieved in close collaboration with other Cuban 
scientific institutions--there are nearly 160 different products 
that have been developed by the CIGB, including about 30 
produced through genetic engineering "from start to finish"; 
these are "recombinant products." 
  To convey an idea of what this means, Dr. Limonta explains 
that "in what is known as the Third World, Cuba is the only 
country that has developed -- from start to finish -- products 
through the use of genetic engineering, which are known and 
registered products, and which are exported. Such products have 
not been developed in any of the other countries, even in 
countries that are much larger than Cuba, like China or India." 
  Just in 1993 the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office in 
Washington registered three patents for the CIGB; by so doing, 
it recognized the originality of the products, and that Cuba is 
the only country with the technology and the methodology to 
produce them. It also recognized that the quality of these 
products meets the Food and Drug Administration standards, the 
most stringent in the world, and granted Cuba the exclusive 
right to produce and sell these products in U.S. territory for 
17 years. 
  These products include a preventive medication for 
myocardial 
infarction called "Estreptoquinasa" (registered as No. 
07/703,778), the first vaccine for meningitis BC developed 
anywhere in the world (07/754,918) and the invertase sucrose 
enzyme which converts sugar into fructose. 
  For "Estreptoquinasa," Cuba -- with the exception of one 
U.S. 
firm -- is the only country that has produced this medication, 
says Limonta. He explains that this product can dissolve clots 
in coronary arteries. "This medicine is capable of eliminating 
clots in a high percentage of patients when it is administered 
immediately after the infarction, and it prevents the infarction 
from progressing. So it acts as a preventive for myocardial 
infarction." 
  The patent registration for this product has already been 
applied for in over 40 countries; "They are going to grant it, 
for we know that we are the only ones who have developed an 
original process to make this medication. Getting a patent of 
this type reflects the high technological capability of our 
institution; in this case, the technology is genetic 
engineering." 
  Studies of the drug produced in the United States have 
demonstrated that its biological effect is similar to that of 
the Cuban product; however, the Cuban medication is much cheaper 
than the U.S. drug. 
  "`Estreptoquinasa' was also developed in record time. From 
the time when the idea was first conceived until the product was 
registered as a medication, only four years elapsed." 
  On the average, in Cuba products are developed in less time 
than in U.S. and Japanese companies. "We have a study, done by 
U.S. and Japanese scientists, that says that we are 1.3 times 
more productive than they are, in terms of the time required to 
complete a product and put it to use, while complying with all 
the legal requirements." 
  In practice, this higher productivity coefficient may mean, 
for example, that a U.S. or Japanese product which requires 10 
years for research and production, may be developed in seven 
years in Cuba. The explanation offered by the Cuban scientists 
for such a surprising phenomenon is complex, but they all agree 
that the educational and scientific philosophy of the 
revolution, of which these young people are the result, is the 
key factor. 
  Another spectacular success of the CIGB is what is known as 
"nerve growth factor" which "is still not known elsewhere in the 
world," says Limonta, "because nobody else has been able to 
develop it." This medication (a protein) is used to regenerate 
nervous system damage, and it "could also be useful in a disease 
like Alzheimer's." The product has now entered the industrial 
production phase, which will enable it to be used in clinical 
trials. 
<H5>  Genetically Altered Animals and Plants </H5>
  Another line of research the CIGB is pursuing is the genetic 
modification of animals and plants. To date they have produced 
transgenic mice, rabbits, and fish. Their goal is now to produce 
a genetically altered cow. 
  Limonta explains that in these animals a new trait or 
genetic 
information is introduced in the fertilized ovum, which the 
animal assimilates as its own and transmits hereditarily. In 
this way, genetic changes can be produced, and new species can 
even be created. 
  The specific objective is to make mammals' milk -- in this 
case, cow's milk -- also produce medications. "The cow is an 
excellent milk-producing laboratory. If we can introduce in this 
laboratory the intelligence enabling it, in addition to milk, to 
also produce specific proteins, then we could have, for example, 
interferon production in cows. It all seems quite simple." "We 
would not need a complex and costly industrial interferon 
production process, which requires the use of fermentation 
equipment, close monitoring, etc.; the entire process would be 
done solely in the animal. We would extract the product from the 
milk and the milk would then be used normally." 
  [Dieterich Steffan] That sounds like science fiction. 
  [Limonta] Yes, but it is going to happen. I am absolutely 
sure of it. We have already done it. We have obtained 
medications in rabbit milk. 
  [Dieterich Steffan] Do international specialists know this? 
  [Limonta] The ones who read international publications do. 
First we did this with mice to test the methodology. Then we 
used rabbits to improve the methodology and produce medications. 
That was again successful. And now we are working to produce 
medications in larger animals, in cows. We have not done that 
yet, but we are going to. 
<H5>  Growth Hormones </H5>
  Manuel Limonta also discussed the CIGB's progress in the 
control and use of growth hormones. 
  "We have worked on fish, and in this area we really have one 
of the most advanced groups in the world. We introduced the 
genetic information contained in the growth hormone in fish. 
This causes the fish to grow very rapidly; they do not reach a 
larger size than normal, but they do so more quickly, because 
they incorporate their food better." 
  The time saved can be half or an even larger percentage 
compared with the normal growth period. The fish -- in this case 
tilapia, a carp -- are still not reproducing in large 
quantities, but the fundamental step has been taken. 
  In the field of animal health they have created, for the 
first time anywhere in the world, a vaccine against cattle 
ticks, for which the patent is now being registered in Brazil, 
Argentina, Mexico, and other countries. The development of a 
vaccine against porcine colibacillosis, a disease whose 
mortality rate among newborn pigs is 100 percent, is another 
notable scientific achievement. At the present time a more 
advanced version of this vaccine is being developed. 
  In the area of plant health, the use of biotechnology has 
resulted in the increase of plants' resistance to specific 
pests. A transgenic tobacco has been produced which resists the 
Manduca septa moth, an insect that destroys the 
tobacco leaf. With this genetic modification, the moth is killed 
without damaging the leaf; this is accomplished without altering 
the plant's characteristics. 
  A potato that is resistant to one of the three types of 
virus 
that affects its seeds is another CIGB achievement. They are now 
working to develop resistance against the other two. They have 
also produced a genetically altered cabbage with a 
moth-resistant gene. 
  They have also developed a transgenic sugarcane -- the first 
time in the world that a genetically altered sugarcane has been 
developed -- to have a sugarcane that is "more resistant to some 
pests." 
<H5>  Other Achievements </H5>
  One of the CIGB's big achievements is the recombinant 
vaccine 
against hepatitis B, which is now used in over 20 countries; in 
Cuba it is given to all newborns as part of a nationwide program. 
  Another completely new product, now registered in Cuba and 
some other countries, but which is still not available on the 
market, is "skin growth factor," which is used to treat burns. 
  Some other important products include humanized monoclinal 
antibodies for treatment and, in the industrial area, new 
enzymes. One of these enzymes is "invertase sucrose" which 
transforms sugar into fructose; when fructose is used to sweeten 
or to improve flavor, the amount of sugar needed is reduced by 
20 to 30 percent. The method and technology used for its 
industrial application are exclusively Cuban. 
<H5>  Against AIDS </H5>
  On the second front against AIDS, its diagnosis, Cuba has 
three different techniques. The first was developed by the AIDS 
Research Laboratory, the second by the CIGB, and the third by 
the CIE [Immunoassay Center]. 
  In discussing the CIGB technique, Dr. Limonta commented that 
"unique diagnostic methods have been developed. For example, we 
have the `Aubio' system in which a drop of blood deposited on a 
plastic strip reacts with a series of genetically engineered 
components. We deposit on the plastic strip structures similar 
to the proteins of the components of the virus membrane, plus a 
gold-based dye. When the drop of blood comes into contact with 
the plastic strip, a change in coloration is produced, which 
indicates, simply by sight, whether the person has been 
infected." 
  This system has also been developed for use in diagnosing 
toxoplasmosis, hepatitis C, etc., and its use is now being 
expanded to other illnesses. It offers the advantage of not 
requiring special equipment to mix the blood and read the 
results, and does not even require a technician or electrical 
current, as the result is visible in ordinary natural light. 
  A different method has been developed by the CIE; it has 
substantially improved the classic method of immunodiagnosis by 
reducing the amounts of the blood samples and reagents by 10 
percent. 
  The efficacy of this diagnostic method (Ultra Micro 
Elisa-HIV) has been demonstrated in many countries, as well as 
in international evaluations by the AIDS Reference Centers 
affiliated with the World Health Organization and PAHO [Pan 
American Health Organization], for example in Brazil, Canada, 
and also in Cuba itself. 
  Now the CIE is marketing an AIDS diagnostic kit in many 
countries, which anyone can buy in drugstores. The kit contains 
a paper filter, a pipette to extract a blood sample from the 
finger, and a form. The blood sample is allowed to dry on the 
filter. The person selects an anonymous personal code and lists 
it on the form (for example, ABC 345), and then sends the dried 
blood sample to a laboratory. An automated reader, like the 
Cuban SUMA, reads the test and determines with a margin of 
accuracy of virtually 100 percent whether that person is 
HIV-positive. The person later calls the laboratory, gives his 
anonymous personal code, and receives the results with absolute 
confidentiality and privacy. 
  This system is now used in many countries, including Spain, 
where its use has been approved by the Ministry of Health and 
Consumer Affairs. The market price is on the average between 20 
and 30 percent less than the price of other products, and the 
CIE provides technical personnel and technical, analytic, or 
instrumental assistance as needed. 
  This is very convenient, says the CIE's director of quality 
control, Dr. Rene Robaina, because "when an institution -- like 
a blood bank -- needs assistance, we are there. We provide 
complete attention that includes everything from the lab setup, 
personnel training, and later assistance." 
  Another advantage of this personalized AIDS diagnosis -- 
registered internationally under the name of HIPERTEST -- is 
that the paper filter containing the blood sample can be sent by 
mail or messenger, as it is highly stable. Once it is dry, it 
will last for months without the accuracy of the diagnosis being 
altered. 
  The HIPERTEST is not sold in Mexico, but "this could be done 
perfectly well; we simply have to find a transfer mechanism," 
says Robaina, "similar, for example, to what we have in the form 
of joint capital ventures in Russia, Brazil, Colombia, Spain, 
China, Ghana, etc." 
  The test is produced exclusively in the Immunoassay Center; 
the filter paper, which must have an extremely homogenous 
quality, is imported from Germany; the chemical reagents also 
come from the world market, while the biological reagents are 
mostly produced in Cuba. The technology is exclusively Cuban. 
  At the CNIC, medicines are being developed against diseases 
that occur because of the weakening of immunological defenses 
caused by AIDS. 
  "We are working on medications to alleviate AIDS; we still 
cannot cure it," says Dr. Carlos Gutierrez, "but we can try to 
get rid of the other diseases. We know there are medications 
that have slightly lengthened the lives of patients, and we are 
trying to do that. We are investigating the possibility of a 
combination of those medications, and we are now at a more 
advanced level than laboratory testing. From the laboratory we 
then go to bench testing, then to the pilot plant, and finally 
to the industrial plant. We are now at the bench testing stage. 
If we can produce this medication, we could extend patients' 
lives." 
<H5>  More Vaccines </H5>
  The Finlay Institute, with an area of 23,000 square 
meters--unequalled in Latin America, and one of the most modern 
in the world--has 650 employees. It developed the world's first 
vaccine against meningitis, and in 1990 it was awarded a Gold 
Model by the United Nations' World Intellectual Property 
Organization for this achievement. 
  This vaccine was developed in barely five years. The 
researchers had to work with live microorganisms, creating a 
high risk of infection, as there is no other vaccine. 
  "We took all possible hygienic precautions," explains Dr. 
Concepcion Carma, director of the institute and coordinator of 
the research group that developed the vaccine, "but we had to 
work with large volumes of bacteria: we are talking of kilograms 
of live bacteria -- that were grown in large 300-liter 
fermentation vats -- and that was a real risk." 
  The first volunteers who used the vaccine were the 
researchers themselves, because "as a matter of ethical policy, 
we believed that what we could not put in ourselves we could not 
ask anyone else to try. And when we tested the vaccine in 
children, we applied the same ethical standard. Our own children 
were the first ones who used the vaccine. Only later did we go 
to field testing," explains the doctor. 
  This vaccine is now being used in a number of Latin American 
countries (Argentina, Chile, Colombia, etc.) where meningitis is 
prevalent. In Brazil over 20 million doses have been 
administered without any severe adverse reactions being 
reported. In the Cuban trials, the vaccine demonstrated an 
efficacy of 83 to 98 percent. 
  Another important line of research is the anticholera 
vaccine, which has already undergone laboratory testing with 
"important results." When the animal testing is completed, the 
three phases of trials with human beings will begin, followed by 
field testing, which will have to be done in some Latin American 
country, as Cuba is the only country in the hemisphere where 
cholera does not exist. 
<H5>  Against Myocardial Infarction </H5>
  At the entry to the CNIC in Havana, the visitor can read a 
statement by Fidel Castro: "The future of our nation necessarily 
belongs to men of science." 
  In this institution which is the leader and promoter of 
Cuban 
biotechnology, that quotation has become a reality, as its major 
achievements attest. 
  Among them is PPG [Policosanol] which combats one of the 
principal risk factors for infarction: high cholesterol levels. 
PPG, which began to be marketed in August 1991, was developed 
from components found in sugarcane, whose solutions have 
properties that reduce certain types of cholesterol. 
  At this time 200,000 Cubans are using PPG regularly, and the 
results are positive in terms of the patients' physical, 
psychological, and even sexual reactions. The medication has now 
been approved for use in 12 countries, and its patent 
application is pending in 22 more countries. Each pill costs $1, 
and the minimum recommended dosage is one tablet a day. Other 
products whose action is similar to that of PPG (the "estatinas" 
[meaning unknown]) are from 1.5 to two times more expensive. 
  They are also trying to extract from sugarcane the raw 
material to produce phytosteroids, in order to manufacture 
steroidal hormones, the basic element of anticontraceptive 
pills. The CNIC has developed the new product beyond the 
laboratory stage, which includes testing with animals, and it is 
now in the pilot plant level. 
  Another of the island's natural resources that is being used 
in biomedicine and biotechnology is Cuba's coral reefs. Since 
the Cuban revolution has been careful with the nation's ecology, 
the corals are practically free from pollution. Dr. Gutierrez 
feels that the corals, in human medicine, are "better than 
synthetic materials," because synthetic materials introduce 
molecules that may be detrimental to the human organism; so at 
least in secondary aspects, natural materials outperform 
artificial materials. 
  Scientific studies have revealed that certain species of 
coral are materials that can be used for transplants or grafts, 
due to their great biocompatibility with human bone tissue, both 
because of their ideal architecture (a porous structure that is 
tridimensionally interconnected) and because of their 
physico-mechanical and biochemical properties (calcium 
phosphates). 
<H5>  Ozone Therapy </H5>
  A treatment developed by the CNIC that is unique in the 
world 
is the use of ozone therapy in treating retinitis 
pigmentosa which, if left untreated, leads to blindness. 
With the use of ozone therapy the advance of the disease has 
been halted, and patients' sight has been improved: "We have 
been seeing patients for two years," says Dr. Gutierrez, "and 
they have not gotten worse, but improved. This has not been done 
anywhere else in the world." 
  Originally the equipment that converts oxygen into ozone was 
imported, and Cubans then developed innovative applications for 
ozone for both therapeutic and industrial uses. 
  At the CIMEQ [Medical and Surgical Research Center] ozone 
therapy is being used to dissolve components of blood clots. 
After five years of animal experiments, the treatment was 
applied to human beings. For coronary and cerebral disease, the 
technique is still in an experimental stage, but it is now being 
used for arterial obstructions in the lower extremities, as an 
alternative to dilation or laser treatment. 
  The results have been presented at international conferences 
in Vienna, Paris, Brazil, and Uruguay. 
  Another important line of research that the CNIC is pursuing 
is the use of monoclinal antibodies for diagnosing plant 
diseases; for example, there is a product that diagnoses the 
"tristeza" [babesia] virus which attacks citrus crops. This 
disease does not exist in Cuba, but purchasers of citrus fruit 
require proof that the fruit does not have this disease; by 
using this diagnostic tool, this is easy to demonstrate. 
<H5>  Medical Equipment </H5>
  For diagnoses in clinical neurophysiology (of the central 
nervous system), computerized equipment has been developed, like 
the "Neuronica" or "Medicid." The "Neuronica" is used to measure 
visual and auditory perception and brain waves during sleep. The 
"Medicid" is very useful in analyzing the nervous system and 
cerebral functions (cerebral mapping); for example, it provides 
a computerized readout of electroencephalograms [EEG's] and 
displays the results on a monitor. Due to the U.S. embargo, 
Cubans have produced all the computer programs for this 
equipment, which is now in use in Mexico. 
  The "Diramic" is another computerized device that provides a 
rapid microbiological diagnosis; in four hours it determines 
with reliability the type of infection and its pattern of 
sensitivity to antibiotics (antibiogram), a diagnosis that 
requires 72 hours when conventional methods are used. By 
indicating the most effective antibiotics for a specific 
infection, it avoids the development of bacterial resistance, 
the ineffective use of antibiotics, and fatal outcomes in 
serious infections. Because of the short analysis time, the 
small volume that it requires, and its low cost, it is possible 
to corroborate the results as often as may be desirable. 
  Another advantage of the system is that it can be used not 
only for samples of isolated and purified strains of bacteria, 
but also for direct specimens from blood or urine cultures. In 
First World countries equipment with similar functions does 
exist, but it is four to five times more expensive. The 
"Diramic" is faster and cheaper, and Cuba is now able to export 
it. 
  The CIE has developed the SUMA ultramocroanalytic system for 
the low-cost analysis of laboratory samples. This is primarily 
useful in the diagnosis of infectious diseases, in blood banks, 
in epidemiology, and for various health programs. 
  The SUMA is the result of 18 years of research, and the CIE 
in Havana, the producer of the equipment, has SUMA laboratories 
in Europe, Asia, Africa, and Latin America. The equipment is 
used to detect AIDS, hepatitis B, meningococcus, 
alphafetoproteins, etc. In Cuba the SUMA is used for the 
prenatal diagnosis of virtually all pregnant women to detect 
congenital malformations like neural tube defects and 
hypothyroidism. 
<H5>  Dengue and Cholera </H5>
  The Pedro Kouri Tropical Medicine Institute, which is 
responsible for protecting the Cuban population from epidemics 
of infectious diseases, has kept any infectious disease from 
Africa from spreading in Cuba, despite the return home of tens 
of thousands of Cuban soldiers. To do so, highly efficient 
diagnostic tools have been developed. 
  There is a diagnostic system for dengue fever, which is now 
in use in many Latin American countries, reports Dr. Alina Llop. 
This rapid detection diagnostic kit for antibodies is sold 
commercially as a kit, and this is unique on the international 
market. 
  Similar kits have been developed to detect streptococcus 
group B, which provides results in three hours. In addition, 
analyses of meningitis infections and cholera, which with 
conventional methods take no less than four days, can be 
obtained in eight hours with the new Cuban molecular biology 
diagnostic systems. Cuba is probably the only country in Latin 
America that has these systems. 
  Another system of great importance for the Third World is a 
new diagnostic tool for amebiasis which, based on molecular 
biology, has a 100 percent accuracy rate. This obviously 
eliminates the uncertainties inherent in conventional methods. 
  There are also other biomedical and bioscientific areas, for 
example, the development of computers for medical imaging in 
which Cuba is one of the world leaders. 
<H5>  Young Scientists </H5>
  The key factor that explains -- in the widely held opinion 
of 
the directors interviewed -- the spectacular advances of the 
Cuban Biotechnology School is the priority that has been given 
since 1959 to education and public health, thanks to which they 
now have a "critical mass" of young scientists of high quality, 
creativity, and discipline. 
  The human factor is actually the only element that 
differentiates the Cuban Biotechnology School from advanced 
laboratories in the United States, Europe, and Japan. All 
high-tech laboratories use the same technological equipment, 
which explains why a visitor who enters the technological 
facilities of the Cuban research and production centers will 
find the same type of Swiss bioreactors, huge Japanese electron 
microscopes, German tomographic equipment, and French mass 
spectrometers that their First World counterparts have. And the 
same thing is true for the chemical and biological raw materials 
that are not produced in Cuba. 
  The political determination of the Cuban state, the 
efficient 
network of cooperation between research and production 
institutions, the unusual combination of basic and applied 
research, as well as the strong insistence that the products 
must meet international standards of quality, are all factors 
that have contributed to this success. 
  Because of the U.S. embargo, Cuban scientific institutions 
have necessarily had to work with European and Japanese 
multinationals, with U.S. corporations remaining outside the 
commercial development of this enormous Cuban potential. 
  However, it is probable that the U.S. business elite will 
not 
tolerate this exclusion for much longer; instead, it will 
probably opt -- as it did with Vietnam -- to cooperate with 
Cuban biotechnology, and that will be the raison 
d'etre for putting an end to the embargo. 
  Cuba's continuing emergence from isolation throughout Latin 
America and Europe, the reconciliation with the Miami exiles, 
and the extraordinary internal reforms are all leading in the 
same direction. So if the cohesion of the Cuban model can resist 
for the next two or three years, Cuba will become -- with the 
exception of Costa Rica -- the only Latin American national 
project with solid foundations enabling it to leave 
underdevelopment behind and emerge from the "backyard" of the 
United States. 
  (For reviewing the medical aspects of this report, I wish to 
thank Dr. Luis Felipe Bojalil J., distinguished professor at the 
Metropolitan-Xochimilco Autonomous University, and a recipient 
of the Science Award from the Academy of Scientific Research.) 

