Language: <F P=105> Arabic </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] Baghdad, 28 Feb (INA)--In reply to what the British 
BBC and the U.S. NBC television networks have screened about 
alleged flooding in the marshlands, Irrigation Minister Nizar 
Jum'ah al-Qasir has said that the water resources in the Tigris 
and Euphrates rivers this year are lower than the usual average, 
and this does not at all allow releasing large quantities of 
water into the southern region of Iraq. 
  In a statement to the IRAQI NEWS AGENCY, he said that more 
than two months ago we began storing water in the dams in the 
upper parts of the Euphrates and Tigris Rivers in anticipation 
of a water shortage during the next summer and winter seasons. 
  The minister of irrigation emphasized that Iraq's water 
resources from outside the country, through the Tigris and 
Euphrates rivers, have substantially been reduced as a result of 
the dams constructed by Turkey. 
  It is known that 75 percent of Iraq's water resources come 
from outside the country. 
  The minister said the scenes screened by BBC and NBC show 
floods in the marshland during the Tigris flooding in 1988. The 
objective of showing these scenes within the framework of a 
television program on the marshlands is to mislead public 
opinion in Britain and the United States in the course of a 
misinformation campaign about Iraq. Sometimes they say the Iraqi 
Government is draining the marshlands, now they are saying the 
Iraqi Government is flooding the marshlands at a time when Iraq 
is suffering from a water shortage. This only indicates the 
failure and confusion of the U.S. and British quarters in their 
hostile campaigns against Iraq. 

