BFN 

  [Text] Helsinki, June 9 (XINHUA) -- Estonian President 
Lennart-Georg Meri said today that trade between his country and 
China had a bright future and his people could learn much from 
China about establishing economic free trade zones. 
  He made the remarks in a written interview with XINHUA. The 
president is due to visit China between June 12-18. 
  He told XINHUA that he is aware that China is playing an 
increasingly important role in world politics. 
  Although the existing trading volume between China and 
Estonia is not big, the president said, he was satisfied with 
the bilateral relations, especially within the economic and 
trade sectors which are mutually beneficial. 
  Dozens of Chinese companies have already invested in Estonia 
and the Estonian business community is keen to reciprocate. 
  A delegation of estonian industrialists and businessmen will 
travel to China soon after President Meri's trip, seeking new 
cooperative opportunities. 
  According to the president, Estonia hopes to become China's 
trading gateway to the Nordic and Baltic countries as well as 
other European regions. 
  President Meri explained that Estonia was changing from a 
planned to a market economy and observing China's successful 
economic adjustment period could help his country achieve a 
smooth transition. 
  He said that Estonia will continue to carry out macro 
economic changes, land and agricultural reform and a 
privatization program. 
  In recent months the Estonian economy has been rising 
rapidly 
from its previous low point with export and foreign exchange 
reserves increasing remarkably. 
  Estonia's investment conditions are also improving and gross 
domestic production is expected to increase by six percent this 
year. 

