BFN 

  [Text] This weekend in Santiago de Cuba, border guard 
troops and workers of the Navegacion Caribe enterprise thwarted 
an act of naval piracy and kidnapping by people trying to 
illegally leave Cuba through the Guantanamo Naval Base: nine 
people, three women and two children, ages five and nine, in 
complicity with Angel Jesus Hernandez Laguna, the operator of a 
Navegacion Caribe self-propelled barge used in their escape 
attempt. 
  The barge was sighted in La Socapa area, before exiting 
Santiago de Cuba Bay, and was pursued by border guard troops for 
50 minutes in an effort to make them give up their illegal 
plans. At Daiquiri Beach, members of the border guard and 
workers of the Navegacion Caribe enterprise boarded the barge 
without firearms, engaged in a man-to-man struggle, and managed 
to subdue the fugitives. This is how the chief of the operation, 
Lieutenant Colonel Lesmes Leal Lescay, described it: 
  [Begin Leal Lescay recording] During the struggle, the only 
injuries the six men sustained were blows; three of our comrades 
also sustained minor blows, some requiring four or five 
stitches. We were able to subdue the men without using firearms, 
in compliance with the guidelines issued by the minister of the 
Interior and the provincial and border guard chiefs. 
  Throughout, we guaranteed that nothing would happen to the 
three women and two children. I took care of that, and once we 
had them, we were able to control the men and guarantee that 
nothing would happen to the women and children at any time. [end 
recording] 
  To prevent the illegal departure of these people, 20 border 
guard troops and workers of the Navegacion Caribe enterprise 
received the Interior Ministry's distinguished service medal, 
the 30 Years of Combat Fraternity pin, and the 20 Years of 
Committees for the Defense of the Revolution Vigilance pin. 

