Language: <F P=105> Estonian </F>
Article Type:CSO 

<F P=106> [Article by Karmo Kaas: "Warehousing Services Attract </F>
Foreign Capital to Estonia"] 
  [Text] 
  At its yesterday's session the government approved, in 
principle, the formation of AS Keemia Vahendus, a joint stock 
company with foreign capital participation for handling 
chemicals, which will be dealing with the warehousing and 
reloading of chemical products being shipped between Russia and 
the Western states. 
  The mission of AS Keemia Vahendus would be to warehouse 
chemical products coming from Russia and other CIS states, 
utilizing the facilities of the centrally located and currently 
unused Maardu warehouse base, and forwarding them to different 
states of Western Europe, United States or Canada. The company 
also offers reloading services for goods bound for Russia and 
other CIS states, along with the option of transfer into 
different containers. 
<H5>  Joint Stock Company Has Five Part-Owners </H5>
  The owners of the joint stock company being formed are RAS 
[State Joint Stock Company] Kommer and AS [Joint Stock Company] 
DAK from Estonia, RAS Gammahim from Russia, production concern 
Orgsintes from Tatarstan, and the Swiss firm of Sober Handels 
AV. RAS Kommmer participates with a 884 square meter storage 
facility, and shares are distributed evenly between all 
participating owners. RAS Gammahim and production concern 
Orgsintes have complete control over the export of their 
country's chemical production, and the Swiss participant has 
been a cooperation partner with Russia for some time. 
  Azril Bernovski, executive director of RAS Kommer, told in 
his interview to aRIUUDISED yesterday that the 
geographical 
positioning of Tallinn's commercial ports is optimal for 
implementing the above-mentioned business plan, and that the 
warehousing and reloading services offered are backed by a 
sufficient demand from Russia as well as the Western states. 
<H5>  Estonia Will Profit From the Venture </H5>
  The state of Estonia should, according to calculations, 
profit from this venture by having the use of Keemia Vahendus 
services at preferential rates. The company will enable RAS 
Kommer to make full use of its now only partially used storage 
capacity, and also increase the utilization of Estonia's 
railroads, Tallinn port facilities and other facilities not 
being used to their full potential. By doing this, Keemia 
Vahendus is hoping to help reduce unemployment. Formation of the 
company will be creating 55 jobs directly. 
<H5>  The Venture To Pay Off in a Year </H5>
  The UN industrial development organization has confirmed the 
profitability of the venture. According to their estimates, the 
venture should pay off in one year, and have an annual 
profitability rating of 72 to 93 percent. 
  The government did not pass a final resolution on the 
formation of AS Keemia Vahendus at its yesterday's session, 
because some details dealing with the formation of the company 
are yet to be worked out. 

