Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:BFN 

<F P=106> ["CHINA DAILY Newspapers Start Global Desktop Delivery </F>
Service"] 
  [Text] The China Daily Group of Newspapers yesterday took 
another major step in going electronic for global desktop 
delivery. 
  Authoritative business-oriented news in English published in 
the China Daily, the Business Weekly, Tender Announcements in 
English, and the Shanghai Star will be conveniently accessible 
on the same day of publication from the reader's computer, 
whether in the office, at home, or on the road. 
  This state-of-the-art technology in print media delivery is 
made available in co-operation with IBNet, a globally accessible 
telecomputing service dedicated to facilitating international 
trade, investment and strategic co-operation. 
  The China Daily Group has been quick to adopt new electronic 
technology in the print media. 
  Since June 1, 1992, subscribers to DataTimes, a database 
network corporation based in Oklahoma City, the United States, 
have been able to access China Daily staff-written stories, 
features, commentaries and CD News items. 
  On August 15 last year, the China Daily Group of Newspapers 
signed an agreement with Reuters Limited. Under the deal, 
subscribers of Reuters Historic Text Products division and 
Reuters third party distributors receive political, economic, 
finance and business reports published by the China Daily 
newspaper group. 
  Subscribers to this service will be able to retrieve news 
stories from the China Daily Group up to a period of 12 months, 
thus eliminating the need to maintain one's own reference 
library. 

