Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Excerpt] Bujumbura, 28 Feb (ABP-BUR/PANA)--At least ten 
civilians were killed and a number of policemen injured in 
shootings which occurred in Bujumbura Saturday [26 February] and 
Sunday night, in the capital of the central African state of 
Burundi, the city's mayor said Monday. 
  It was the first bloody weekend since the installation of 
President Cyprien Ntaryamira on 5 February as Burundi's new 
president, following the assassination of his democratically 
elected successor, Melchior Ndadaye, in a tribal-inspired coup 
attempt in October last year. 
  Automatic arm gunshots and hand grenade explosions were held 
throughout Sunday night in Bujumbura. The mayor of Bujumbura 
said in a telephone interview with PANA Monday that those 
involved in the shooting were driving in private vehicles. He 
added that these assailants mainly targeted positions where 
gendarmes were located. A number of the security personnel were 
injured. He did not specify the health situation of those who 
were injured. 
  Asked to state the objective of the violence, the mayor 
claimed that the people involved were opposed to Monday's 
re-opening of schools in Burundi for various reasons. According 
to him, some of the groups still had some relatives who were 
still in exile abroad or had their families living as displaced 
persons within school premises for lack of anywhere else to go. 
  In a radio and televised message to the nation Sunday night, 
President Ntaryamira warned parents that indisciplined students 
and those who take extreme actions against their colleagues 
would be rusticated. Schools were closed in Burundi following 
the widespread violence which broke out among the Tutsi and Hutu 
tribesmen after the assassination of Ndadaye, barely three 
months after his election as president. [passage omitted] 

