BFN 

  [Text] Dusseldorf -- In the view of the North 
Rhine-Westphalian Interior Minister Herbert Schnoor (Social 
Democratic Party), the Republikaner are currently the most 
dangerous party in the right-wing extremist camp. On presenting 
his land's report on the protection of the constitution in 
Dusseldorf on Wednesday [27 April], Schnoor pointed out that the 
party is using a middle-class camouflage, while relying more 
than ever on xenophobic propaganda. Individual members are even 
prepared to use violence against foreigners. 
  While stating that the Republikaner tend toward right-wing 
extremism, Federal Interior Minister Manfred Kanther (Christian 
Democratic Union) on the other hand, merely called them a 
right-wing radical group recently. 
  According to Schnoor, in the run-up to the elections the 
Republikaner are increasingly joined by new members sharing a 
firm right-wing extremist view of the world. Last year, they 
increased their membership in North Rhine-Westphalia from 2,100 
to 2,500. The constitution protection report speaks of a total 
of 25 right-wing extremist and neo-Nazi parties and groups with 
a membership of 9,200 in 1993. The previous year there had been 
23 organizations with 8,800 members. The biggest right-wing 
extremist party is the German People's Union with 5,000 members. 
  The number of politically motivated incidences of violence 
in 
North Rhine-Westphalia shows a large increase. Last year, there 
were a total of 827 acts of violence carried out against a 
political background, which is almost 20 percent more than in 
1992, Schnoor said. Xenophobia was the motive for more than 50 
percent of all attacks. 

