Language: <F P=105> Russian </F>
Article Type:BFN 

<F P=106> [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Sergey Bazhenov] </F>
  [Text] Moscow, 22 Jan -- ITAR-TASS has learned that the 
Russian Foreign Ministry today made a representation to the 
Japanese Embassy in Russia in connection with mass violations by 
Japanese fishing boats on the border of Russia's territorial 
waters in the area of Kunashir island [one of the Kurils], which 
took place on 21, 22 January. 
  Nikolay Solovyev, director of the second Asian department of 
the Russian Foreign Ministry said in an interview with ITAR-TASS 
that last Friday [21 January]: More than 50 Japanese schooners 
made a show of entering Russian territorial waters and, in spite 
of a request by Russian border guards to leave, remained there 
for more than five hours. On 22 January, 30 Japanese schooners 
again entered Russia's territorial waters and remained there for 
more than five hours. 
  It is quite remarkable that three vessels of the Japanese 
security directorate were not far from this area, but, 
unfortunately, they did not prevent, in any way, the Japanese 
schooners from violating Russian territorial waters. 
  At the same time, Solovyev noted that the behavior of the 
crew of the Japanese schooners toward Russian border guards was 
impertinent. 
  The official representative of the Russian Foreign Ministry 
said: Such unprecedented violations of Russian territorial 
waters by Japanese fishing vessels may have a negative effect on 
the development of relations between the countries. 
  Solovyev stressed that the Russian Foreign Ministry: Cannot 
avoid expressing its serious concern in connection with this 
matter, taking into consideration the fact that these violations 
are taking place on the eve of bilateral consultations being 
held at the level of deputy foreign ministers, as well as on the 
eve of a sitting of the working group on the treaty on peace. 

