BFN 

  [Excerpt] Nicosia, April 4 (AFP)--An AFP correspondent and 
her bodyguard in Iraqi Kurdistan were killed instantly when one 
or more gunmen fired at their car with automatic weapons at 
short range, UN officials said Monday. 
  Lissy Schmidt, a 35-year-old German, was travelling with her 
Iraqi Kurdish bodyguard on a road linking al-Sulaymaniyah with 
Sayid Sadiq near the Iranian border when they were attacked from 
a passing car Sunday, UN officials in the area told AFP by 
telephone. 
  "It was really (an attack) aimed at her," one UN source 
said. 
"She had no chance." 
  The two bodies were sent to a mortuary at al-Sulaymaniyah 
hospital. Schmidt's body is to be flown back to Germany. 
  UN officials said it was not known who carried out the 
attack. 
  Schmidt had not spoken of any threats on her life in the 
days 
before her death. 
  In Damascus one of the main Iraqi Kurdish groups, the 
Patriotic Union of Kurdistan (PUK), said Iraqi President Saddam 
Husayn's regime had "promised a reward of 10,000 dollars to 
anyone killing a foreigner in Kurdistan." 
  However, the PUK, which runs the de facto autonomous region 
with the Democratic Party of Kurdistan (DPK), did not name the 
killers in its statement. 
  The PUK said Schmidt and the bodyguard, Aziz Qadir, were 
killed instantly by the gunmen at a range of around 300 metres 
(yards). They were near Jakhnakhajian village. 
  Schmidt was the only foreign journalist permanently based in 
Iraqi Kurdistan, controlled by the Kurds since their uprising 
against the Baghdad regime following the January-February 1991 
Gulf War. [passage omitted] 

