Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] Tallinn, Feb 28 BNS -- The Estonian Environment 
Ministry released a report according to which environmental 
damage last year amounted to 6.2 million kroons. The sum of 
compensation for it reached 1.8 million kroons. 
  Damage to forest accounted for 5.4 million kroons and a 1.2- 
million-kroon chunk of the compensation money went to make 
reparation for it. 
  The sum covers only the damage caused to the state and the 
local governments, but not the losses of private persons. 
  Estonia lacks an integral system of forest supervision and 
nature conservation in general, Henn Alton, Environment 
Ministry's deputy chief conservation inspector, said at a press 
conference. 
  Regional nature preservation work rests on enthusiasts with 
long experience. In the future it may become impossible to find 
experienced workers because of low pay and lack of equipment, 
Chief Inspector Heiki Nurmsalu said. Local budgets are at 
present short of funds for buying special technology without 
which a conservation inspector's work is impossible, he added. 
  The Sea Inspectorate registered last year 1,118 violations 
of 
fishing regulations, which caused damage to the tune of 188,000 
kroons; 114,000 kroons was recovered in compensation. 
  The inspectorate has joined forces with the Border Guard 
Department and the Police Department to protect fish resources 
and water bodies, inspectorate head Aado Luksep said. As a 
result, a satisfactory situation in fish protection in East 
Virumaa, for example, has been achieved, he added. 
  Head of Environment Ministry's radiation and atmosphere 
department Jaan Saar voiced the opinion that radiation control 
on the border needs to be stepped up to prevent import of 
radioactive metal into Estonia. 

