BFN 

  [Text] Kyoto, April 12 KYODO -- France and Chile have 
jointly proposed tough regulations on tourists to Antarctica 
after reports of environmental damage caused by visitors to the 
frigid continent, sources at the Antarctica conference here said 
Tuesday [12 April]. 
  Signatories of an international treaty on the Antarctic are 
meeting here at the Kyoto International Conference Hall until 
April 22 to discuss policies to protect the environment at the 
South Pole. 
  The proposed regulations would hold the tourists, their 
travel agents, and their countries responsible for protecting 
the environment, the sources said. 
  Tourists, who have been growing in number in recent years, 
and their travel agents would be required to submit a detailed 
plan of their visit 15 months before departure and strictly 
observe the environmental protection agreement during their 
trip, the sources said. 
  Home countries of the tourists and agents would be asked to 
approve the visits to Antarctica and in the event of violations 
of the protection agreement would be denied approval for visits 
up to five years, the sources said. 
  The United States and Britain, on the other hand, plan to 
propose guidelines for the tourists and adventurers, and are 
opposed to the strictness of the joint proposal of France and 
Chile. 
  Between 2,000 and 3,000 tourists visit Antarctica each year, 
but there have been reports of the tourists trampling penguin 
nesting grounds, damaging local plant life and disrupting 
scientific experiments being conducted in the area. 

