Language: <F P=105> Spanish </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] National Drug Directorate Director Gabriel de Vega 
Pinzon has said that the fight against drug trafficking in the 
world has not failed because it has not even begun yet in many 
countries. He did admit that, unfortunately, Colombia continues 
to be the world's top producer and exporter of cocaine. He 
rejected the attempt to label the drug cartels as Colombian and 
complained about the international community's indolence with 
which it treats our country in the face of this problem while 
indirectly benefiting from the illegal activities of drug 
traffickers. 
  De Vega Pinzon noted that a double standard continues to 
exist in sectors of the international community because, on the 
one hand, they try to stigmatize us and call us the big culprits 
in the drug trafficking problem and, on the other hand, they 
fail to see their own faults. 
  He said that despite the cooperation given by some 
countries, 
which makes it reasonable to think this evil will be defeated, 
there are a lot of other countries where the sale of drugs is 
practically free and where bank secrecy laws are so secure that 
they pave the way for laundering large amounts of capital from 
drug trafficking businesses. 
  He concluded that the pressure Colombia has exerted on the 
drug trafficking cartels has been so great that they have been 
forced to expand their organizations to other Latin American 
countries, many of which do not give the importance Colombia 
gives to this problem. 

