BFN 

  [Text] Last week, China claimed that Tu Chinh or Wan An 
area was a part of its territory in the Nansha [Spratly] 
Archipelagoes. Regarding this issue, the spokesperson for the 
Vietnamese Foreign Ministry released a statement rejecting this 
illegal claim and maintained that Tu Chinh is a region well 
within Vietnam's exclusive economic zone and continental shelf. 
  Recently, Mr. (Tilaz Dosel) of the Southeast Asia Research 
Institute in Singapore, quoted in his thesis entitled: 
"Vietnam, a New Oil and Gas Exporter in Asia," as saying that 
China always violates Vietnam's sovereignty. [sentence as 
heard] Mr. (Tilaz Dosel) said: In May 1992, China allowed the 
Crestone Energy Corporation of the United States to explore oil 
and gas in an area of 15,610 square meters which is called by 
China as North Wan An-21, but in fact this area lies in 
Vietnam's territory, adjoining the Big Bear Oil Field. In 
September 1992, China sent four geology survey and drilling 
ships to operate in the Tonkin Gulf, about 150 km offshore 
Vietnam, where Vietnam has granted license to (Idemicfield) 
Company of Japan to explore. In 1993, China's ships intruded 
into the 6th lot of Vietnam, where BP Company of Britain was 
licensed for exploration. 
  The area that China allowed the Crestone Company to explore 
is the 133d lot which the Conoco Company of the United States 
was asking for Vietnam's approval to exploit. 
  Mr. (Tilaz Dosel) also mentioned that Vietnam has many a 
time 
negotiated with its neighboring countries to settle the dispute 
over its sea territory. He said that China has many times 
violated Vietnam's sovereignty in the Tu Chinh area. 

