BFN 

<F P=106> [Editorial: "To Reverse a Wrong Course Is a Virtue] </F>
  [Text] In the wake of yesterday's meeting with His Majesty 
King Husayn, U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher stressed 
that his country has responded to Jordan's proposals on the 
al-'Aqabah Port inspections. We can only welcome such a 
development, which Jordan has been seeking and struggling to 
achieve. 
  Understandably, America's reverse of its unjustified 
position 
on the al-'Aqabah Port is considered an abandonment of wrong 
course. Welcoming such a move, we hope to see pertinent measures 
on the ground as soon as possible, especially since the 
imposition of this iniquitous sea blockade has been targeting 
Jordan and its economy more than any other country. 
  Undoubtedly, the U.S. decision to give up such an erroneous 
course against Jordan must be attributed to His Majesty King 
Husayn's brave insistence that this blockade be lifted before 
Jordan resumes any active participation in any negotiations in 
the context of the Middle East peace process. 
  U.S. approval to stop the sea piracy measures that have been 
exercised against Jordan for over three years means that it is 
abandoning a course that blemished Jordan's position and image, 
despite the fact that Jordan has declared its commitment to 
international resolutions and played an undeniable part in 
boosting the peace process. 
  We welcome such a development in the U.S. position on 
Jordan. 
We view it as a reverse of a grave mistake that the United 
States has been committing against us without any adequate 
justification. At the same time, we firmly support his majesty 
the king who confidently led a courageous and aggressive 
diplomatic thrust that eventually convinced the United States to 
respond to our objective proposals in this regard. 

