Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] Prague/Bratislava, March 25 (CTK) -- The results 
following from a meeting of the Czech and Slovak finance 
ministers, Ivan Kocarnik and Rudolf Filkus, indicate that the so 
called old bloc clearing account could be abolished as of May 1 
or June 1. 
  Ludmila Nutilova, spokeswoman of the Czech Finance Ministry, 
told CTK today that the definitive date of the abolition would 
depend on the Czech and Slovak parliaments. Kocarnik intends to 
propose an amendment to the Czech-Slovak payment agreement to 
the Czech Government by April 10, she said. 
  The negotiations held in Smolenice near Bratislava are also 
attended by the banking boards of both the Czech and Slovak 
National Banks. The talks center on the abolition of the old 
bloc used for Czech-Slovak trade payments for deals concluded 
before February 8, 1993, when the Czech and Slovak currencies 
split, Martin Svehla, a spokesman of the Czech National Bank, 
told CTK. 
  Nutilova explained that the "old" obligations so far cleared 
through the old bloc, would be settled in ECU, in line with the 
new bloc. 
  Svehla said that the old bloc has been misused for 
speculations leading to the deepening of the deficit in 
Slovakia's payments. Filkus recently confirmed that Slovakia 
wanted the old bloc to be abolished by May 1. Svehla did not 
specify the way of abolishing the old bloc. 
  He also confirmed that some Czech-Slovak questions yet to be 
settled, such as the division of the balance of the former 
Czechoslovak State Bank, including Slovakia's gold, were also to 
be discussed at the meeting. 

