Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] The Hague, Feb 3 (AFP) -- Libya maintained a 
stubborn silence Thursday [3 February] night after the 
International Court of Justice rejected its long-standing claim 
to a strip of uranium-rich desert territory in northern Chad. 
  The court ruled Chad was the rightful owner of the Aouzou 
strip, ending a 22 year argument over ownership of the 114,000 
square kilometer (45,600 square mile) border territory. 
  Judges ruled 16 to one, the one being the Libyan judge, in 
favour of Chad's claim to the desert strip, inhabited by 
semi-nomadic herdsmen and farmers. 
  "It is a victory," said Chad's representative at the court, 
Abderahman Dadi. The sooner Libya keeps its word to abide by 
the court decision and end its occupation of the area, the 
better, Dadi added. 
  Neither the Libyan authorities nor the Libyan media made any 
mention of the ruling. 
  Libya annexed Aouzou, the only town within the 1,000 
kilometer (620 mile) long strip, in 1972, citing an unratified 
1935 treaty between Italy, Libya's former colonial master, and 
France. 
  Court judges said the 1955 border established by a 
"friendship and good neighbour" agreement between France, Chad's 
former colonial power, and Libya, should stand. 
  The Libyan representative at the court left without making 
any comment. 
  The two sides opted to take the dispute before the UN's 
highest court in August 1990. Libya like Chad agreed to abide 
by the court's decision. 

