BFN 

  [Text] Tallinn, Apr 19, BNS -- Estonian Prime Minister 
Mart Laar, on a visit to the United States, met with Defense 
Secretary William Perry in Washington Monday [19 April]. 
  The U.S. Defense Secretary at the meeting reaffirmed 
America's support to the demand that Russian troops be pulled 
out from Estonia, Laar said in an interview with the Voice of 
America later that day. 
  "At the same time William Perry underscored that the United 
States won't let anybody tell to what extent it should support 
Estonia over defense issues and how far to go in the bilateral 
cooperation," the Estonian leader said, adding that the main 
part of the meeting had been a constructive exchanging of 
opinions on how this bilateral cooperation is to proceed. 
  Laar said the United States has plans to assist Estonia in 
strengthening the country's border guard structures, as well as 
to work closely under the Partnership for Peace program and in 
setting up a Baltic peacekeeping battalion. 
  The PAEVALEHT newspaper in Tallinn reports that Laar also 
met 
with Vice-Secretary of State Strobe Talbott, and Peter Tarnoff, 
aide to the Secretary of State on political issues. The 
Estonian prime minister made a speech at the Carnegie 
International Peace Foundation. 
  Laar and Vice President Al Gore at a meeting today were 
scheduled to sign two agreements in the field of economy. 
  Laar is also to meet congressmen, representatives of the 
International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. The agenda of 
Laar's visit further includes trips to New York, Boston and 
Chicago. The Estonian leader is scheduled to read a lecture on 
Estonia at Harvard University. 
  The prime minister's delegation includes Foreign Ministry 
Chancellor Indrek Tarand, a personal secretary to the prime 
minister, Toomas Kiho. Ardo Hansson, adviser to the Estonian 
government, is to join later. 
  Laar is scheduled to return to Estonia on Apr. 25. 

