BFN 

  [Text] The health ministers of Cambodia Laos, Vietnam, and 
Thailand yesterday signed a joint statement to better tackle 
regional health problems. 
  The statement, issued on the last day of a two-day 
ministerial meeting in Phatthaya on Regional Cooperation in 
Health Development, ignores political boundaries. 
  It would be enforced after official acknowledgment from the 
four countries' cabinets. 
  The statement was signed by Public Health Minister Athit 
Urairat, Cambodian Health Minister Chhea Thang, Lao Vice-Health 
Minister Bounkhouang Phichit and Vietnamese Health Minister 
Nguyen Trong Nhan. 
  The ministers said they were committed to eradicating and 
resolving priority health problems of common concern. 
  Each country was determined to fight against sub-regional 
priority health problems through balanced, comprehensive and 
multidisciplinary approaches, they said. 
  They promised to undertake collective action to tackle 
problems including HIV/AIDS, malaria, iodine deficiency 
disorders, substance abuse, poliomyelitis and other epidemic 
diseases. 
  Planning and management coordinating bodies would be formed 
at local and national levels. 
  New departments would aim to introduce action programs and 
would adopt policies, programs and strategies to achieve a more 
coordinated control of health problems. 
  Ministers also called on the international community to 
offer 
concrete technical and financial assistance to new collaborative 
programmes. 
  The meeting focused on five major common communicable 
diseases in neighbouring countries--HIV/AIDS, malaria, polio, 
substance abuse and iodine deficiency. 
  Dr. Athit, in his closing remarks, said it was time to 
change 
the "days of discussion" into action. 
  "We found that we are ready to invest for our future--the 
children and women," he said. 
  "And we also wanted to be better prepared for any emerging 
health threat. AIDS and substance abuse is a case to test our 
readiness." 

