Language: <F P=105> Spanish </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] Santa Fe de Bogota, 13 Jan (PL) -- Colombian Health 
Minister Juan Londono has made a positive evaluation of his 
visit to Cuba. He emphasized the agreements achieved and the 
prospect for greater cooperation. 
  Londono has considered as most important the opportunity he 
had for more than a week to study closely the health system, 
which has made Cuba one of the most advanced countries in that 
field in Latin America. 
  He said he signed an agreement with the Genetic Engineering 
and Biotechnology Center to supply 2.5 million doses of 
hepatitis B vaccine during the first quarter of 1994. The 
vaccine was used here last year in a program that covered the 
regions and sectors most threatened by this disease. Progress 
was also made in the negotiations to buy 200,000 doses of 
meningitis vaccine. The disease can be fatal, and Cuba is the 
only country to have developed an effective vaccine against it. 
Lodono has said it was agreed that a technical mission would 
visit Colombia during the first week of February to help design 
a broader immunization program for the next five years. 
  He also explored the possibility of Cuban cooperation to 
strengthen Colombia's epidemiologic surveillance network through 
the development of a data system and the addition of more 
control laboratories, as well as increasing its capability. 

