Language: <F P=105> Greek </F>
Article Type:BFN 

<F P=106> [Report by Yeoryios Kallinikou] </F>
  [Excerpts] The report broadcast by Antenna Television 
Thursday [13 January] night regarding the supposed arrival of 
Greek commandos in Cyprus for joint exercises with the National 
Guard, within the framework of the new Cyprus-Greece defense 
doctrine, was irresponsible and in violation of journalistic 
norms. The report finally "armed" Turkish propaganda with 
plenty of ammunition; they can capitalize on it, and attempt to 
utilize it in the political arena. [passage omitted] 
  Earlier, Government Spokesman Ioannis Kasoulidhis expressed 
hopes that no harm would come as a result of the way the issue 
was reported by Antenna Television and that some parties -- 
implying the Turks -- would not capitalize on it. [passage 
omitted] 
  Despite condemnation of Antenna's reporting on this issue by 
the government, various journalists, and the Union of Cypriot 
Editors, as well as by the public -- because even it the news 
item was correct, it should not have been broadcast because it 
falls within sensitive aspects of the island's defense and 
security -- Antenna Director Yeoryios Tsalakos attempted 
yesterday to defend the station. During last night's newscast, 
Antenna refrained either from apologizing or from making at 
least the essential self-criticism. Tsalakos told Cyprus 
Broadcasting Corporation that the station's correspondent had 
gone to cover an activity and had used a common journalistic 
method. He claimed that the issue is the police arrest of the 
correspondent and his crew. [passage omitted] 
  Regarding the facts now, the truth is that the Greek 
reservist commandos did not come for exercises, and in any case 
they do not have any relation to the Greece-Cyprus joint defense 
space. The Greek reservist commandos arrived at the invitation 
of the Nicosia chapter of the Association of Reservist 
Commandos. [passage omitted] 
  The government spokesman said that according to his 
information, the Antenna correspondent and crew went to the 
airport and said they wanted to film the arrival in Cyprus of 
[Greek actress] Aliki Vouyiouklaki. [passage omitted] 

