Language: <F P=105> French </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] The antidrug brigade in Haiti netted a new catch of 
drug dealers in Port-au-Prince where about 10 kg of cocaine were 
seized on 24 February at the Port-au-Prince Airport and three 
persons linked to drug trafficking were arrested. Jean Max Blanc 
filed a report: 
  [Begin recording in Creole] On 24 February, the antidrug 
police in Haiti arrested a voodoo priestess who was trying to 
travel with 12 kg of cocaine. The police arrested Mrs. Fritz 
Betty Obin as she was attempting to travel to the United States 
aboard American Airlines. Mrs. Obin confessed that she was 
surprised by her arrest because she uses powerful magic to help 
the drug pass through. She admitted that from 4 May 1993 to 7 
January 1994, she had already traveled with 30 kg of cocaine. 
The amount that the antidrug police seized would have brought 
this amount up to 42 kg that the voodoo priestess would passed 
through. 
  The national antidrug brigade advises that last week, six 
foreigners, two men from Colombia, two from The Bahamas, one 
from the Dominican Republic, and one from Venezuela of Colombian 
origin were arrested. At that time, the police seized more than 
$100,000 U.S. 
  Police seized five kg of cocaine in the house of Juan 
Alberto 
Ramirez (Azujo), alias Pedro. According to one of the antidrug 
brigade authorities, Mr.(Azujo) is reportedly the head of a 
cartel sending drugs to the United States through Haiti. 
  A kg of cocaine is worth more than $10,000 U.S. [end 
recording] 

