BFN 

  [Text] The president, Sir Ketumile Masire, has 
congratulated the South African president-elect, Mr. Nelson 
Mandela, for his victory in South Africa's first multiracial 
election. In his message President Masire said it is a victory 
that the people of South Africa have yearned for, fought for, 
and died for over the centuries. He said Mr. Mandela's own 
personal struggle against apartheid is the epitome of the 
suffering South Africans had to endure for freedom and human 
rights. 
  President Masire expresses the hope that as South Africans 
celebrate their election victory and remember their fallen 
heroes, they will at the same time dedicate themselves to a 
future free of racial bigotry and the tyranny of the majority. 
Sir Ketumile expresses the hope that under Mr. Mandela's 
leadership the struggle for economic integration of the 
underprivileged people of South Africa will be carried out 
smoothly and with due regard to the interests of everyone. He 
says he looks forward to working with Mr. Mandela at the 
bilateral, regional and international levels. Sir Ketumile said 
South Africa has a great role to play in southern Africa and 
will be welcomed into the SADC [Southern African Development 
Community] family. 

