Article   Type:BFN 

  [Editorial Report] The following is a compilation of 
reports on Panamanian economic developments monitored through 11 
January. Source is cited in parentheses following each item. 
  According to estimates by government and business sources, 
the Panamanian economy experienced growth of 6-7 percent in 
1993. According to the General Commerce Directorate of the 
Commerce and Industries Ministry, 6,938 commercial licenses were 
issued nationwide up to November 1993. The issued licenses 
generated $28 million in invested capital and approximately 
$327,000 in taxes. The General Industries Directorate granted 
7,513 import permits, which represents a 15-percent increase 
compared with 1992. According to figures from the Planning and 
Economic Policy Ministry, the number of public employees fell by 
4,943 -- a 3.4-percent decrease -- between 20 December 1989 and 
31 October 1993. For the same period, however, salaries 
increased from $64.4 million to $69.6 million, which implies a 
7.9-increase in the government payroll. With the Voluntary 
Retirement Program, the current government plans to reduce the 
government payroll by about 6,000 jobs, which will save the 
state $30 million. Through November 1993, some 2,356 public 
servants had joined the program. (Panama City EL PANAMA AMERICA 
in Spanish 9 Jan 94 p 1D) 
  In 1993, Panama imported $2 billion in goods and exported 
$480 million. Panamanian exports from 1979 to 1992 have not 
surpassed $500 million; however, imports for 1993 only reached 
$2 billion. Bananas, Panama's leading export, were down $5 
million through August 1993 compared with 1992. Prospects for 
banana exports are not very optimistic because of EC 
restrictions on Latin American banana imports. 
  Shrimp, Panama's second leading export, experienced a modest 
growth of $1 million through August 1993 over the $41.6 million 
earned in the same period in 1992. According to preliminary 
figures from the Comptroller's Office, Panama imported $1.589 
billion through August 1993. Panama mainly exported crude oil, 
distilled combustible oils, medicines, and vehicles. (Panama 
City EL PANAMA AMERICA in Spanish 9 Jan 94 p 1C) 
  Panamanian Tourism Institute Director Anel Beliz said the 
tourism industry experienced a 10-percent growth in 1993, 
contributing $260 million to the economy. In 1993, 375,000 
tourists visited Panama, which means 15,000 more tourists than 
in 1992. (Panama City LA PRENSA in Spanish 8 Jan 94 p 9A) 
  Comptroller General Jose Chen Barria said international 
financial institutions will give Panama $234 million during the 
first quarter of 1994. (Panama City EL PANAMA AMERICA in Spanish 
4 Jan 94 p 2A) 
  According to Jose Delgado, deputy director of the General 
Consular and Ships Directorate, Panama moved into first place in 
the international ship registry with 777 vessels and collected 
$41 million in revenues in 1993. Delgado said that up to 
November 1993, Panama was ahead of Liberia by 1.2 million tons. 
He added that the net growth registered during 1993 was $4.3 
million and 290 vessels. 
  Delgado stated that Panama has maintained a constant growth 
since 1990 regarding ship registry. According to Delgado, growth 
will remain constant so long as the international shipyards 
continue building new vessels. (Panama City EL PANAMA AMERICA in 
Spanish 10 Jan p 8C) 

