BFN 

<F P=106> [Julie Kirkbride report: "African Landmine Contract Angers </F>
MP"] 
  [Text] The Prime Minister has been asked to clarify 
Britain's policy on the manufacture of landmines following 
reports that Royal Ordnance, along with other armament 
manufacturers, has won a UN contract to clear landmines from 
Mozambique. 
  The reported award of the multi-million-pound contract to an 
international group of arms manufacturers was called into 
question by Mr Tom Clarke, Labour's Overseas Development 
spokesman, yesterday. 
  The British Mines Advisory Group has expressed alarm at the 
prospect that money earmarked by the UN for humanitarian 
purposes could be given to munitions factories who profit twice 
-- from the production and then the clearance of landmines. 
  The concern follows reports that Royal Ordnance successfully 
headed a consortium, including Lonrho and Mechem of South 
Africa, that won a 3.3 million pounds UN aid contract to clear 
landmines from 1,200 miles of road in Mozambique. 
  Royal Ordnance now run privately by British Aerospace, has 
not produced landmines for a decade, but was recently involved 
in a Ministry of Defence programme to develop a new generation 
of anti-tank mines which was cancelled due to defence cuts. 
  Mr Clarke said he had written to Mr Major demanding to know 
whether the Royal Ordnance factory planned to manufacture 
landmines. 
  He said: "Parliament should take the issue of landmines more 
seriously. They are a huge problem in the Third World." 
  More than 100 million mines are estimated to be scattered 
around 62 countries. 
  A Foreign Office spokesman said that while Britain supported 
a moratorium on the export of anti-personnel landmines which 
endangered civilians, it did not approve a blanket ban on their 
production. 
  Royal Ordnance was unavailable to comment on the contract 
last night. 

