Language: <F P=105> Spanish </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Excerpts] Buenos Aires, 20 Mar (NA) -- Defense Minister 
Oscar Camilion said in Chile today that "the inclusion of 
Argentine troops in the UN peace-keeping forces in Bosnia and 
the fact that our troops must carry arms equivalent to those of 
other nations tacitly imply the lifting of the United Kingdom's 
arms embargo against us." 
  Camilion confirmed that a Argentine Army company of 150 men 
will leave "as soon as possible" for Bosnia-Herzegovina because 
"it is important for men of peace to militarily support the 
consolidation of peace in that region." 
  The defense minister is in Chile to participate in the 
Eighth 
International Aeronautics and Space Fair where the Cordoba 
Military Planes Factory is represented with various products. 
  Camilion will visit this year's fair, which is organized by 
the Chilean Air Force, where he will probably meet with his 
counterparts from other Latin American nations. 
  Camilion met yesterday with his Chilean counterpart Edmundo 
Perez Yoma, who was sworn in recently. The Argentine minister 
considers "the contact very satisfactory. It constitutes the 
political event of this trip." [passage omitted] 
  Asked about an eventual change of the arms balance between 
Argentina and Chile considering Margaret Thatcher's husband and 
son work in the arms business, Camilion said Chile's relations 
with the United Kingdom "do not include any arms sales that 
could affect commerce with our country." 
  Camilion said he did not have any news about the removal of 
mines on the Malvinas Islands, and again ruled out the idea of 
using Argentine personnel for the task. 
  Camilion traveled to Chile yesterday. He was accompanied by 
Juan Paulik, Air Force general staff chief, and other high 
ranking Air Force officers. [passage omitted] 

