BFN 

<F P=106> [Report by Udo Ulfkotte: "Iran Wants To Send 10,000 </F>
Soldiers to Bosnia"] 
  [Text] Frankfurt, 15 June -- Iran is prepared to place 
10,000 Iranians at the disposal of the United Nations for 
employment in Bosnia, Iranian Foreign Minister Velayati 
mentioned this to this newspaper. "Not a single other state of 
the world" is "willing to send such a large number of soldiers 
to Bosnia," Velayati said. He said that U.S. assertions that 
Iranians are already fighting on the side of the Bosnian Muslims 
"cannot be proven." So far, Iran has "only" provided 
"humanitarian" help to the Bosnian Government. President 
Rafsanjani has called on Iranian youth to prepare for the 
mission in Bosnia. However, they must be dispatched in 
agreement with the United Nations. So far, an answer to the 
Iranian offer has not yet been received from the United Nations, 
he said. 
  One day after the official announcement of the pardon for 
German mechanical engineer Szimkus, who was sentenced to death 
in Iran for espionage for Iraq, Velayati said: "The release of 
the German depends on agreements that we still have to make with 
German institutions." Minister of State Schmidbauer, who is 
reponsible for the coordination of the intelligence services in 
the Chancellor's Office, said on Tuesday [14 June]: "I proceed 
on the assumption that Szimkus might be on German territory 
within four weeks." Velayati rejected speculations that, in 
connection with the pardon for the German, clear concessions had 
been made to the Iranians accused in the Berlin Mykonos lawsuit. 
"We are only calling for a just sentence in the Mykonos 
lawsuit," the foreign minister said. At the same time, he denied 
Iran's intention to transfer ownership of the Island of Kish in 
the Persian Gulf, together with the luxurious recreational 
facilities that had been built under the Shah, to the FRG, in 
order to repay Iran's high debts to German enterprises. Radio 
Tehran had reported relevant considerations on 31 May. With 
outstanding accounts of 4.2 billion German marks, Germany is 
Iran's biggest creditor. In the same radio report, President 
Rafsanjani said: "Iran's capital investments in Germany are 
higher than the amount that Iran owes to Germany." Velayati 
said: "Nobody has the authority to give an Iranian island away." 
  According to Velayati, in the Israeli-Arab conflict, Iran 
wants to continue its support for the fundamentalist Hamas 
movement despite the peace process. Support, which he called 
"humanitarian and moral," is necessary because the difficulties 
have not yet been solved. Pediatrician Velyati, who has been 
Iranian foreign miniser since 1981, said: "We do not expect the 
Israeli-Arab peace process to change the situation. The 
so-called peace process will fail." There are still more than 
200 Jewish settlements in the territories occupied by Israel and 
4 million Palestinians are still living in the refugee camps in 
Israel's neighboring states. An agreement has neither been 
achieved on the future of the Golan Heights nor on the Israeli 
occupation of a 10-km-wide border strip in Lebanon. "Mr. 
'Arafat" will "only be the mayor of Gaza and Jericho," but 
otherwise "nothing has changed." Therefore, support for the 
radical pro- Iranian Hamas will be continued. Meanwhile, the 
Israeli Finance Ministry reported on Wednesday that, if the 
financial means promised to the PLO by European states do not 
immediately arrive in the autonomous territories, Hamas, which 
is supported by Iran, will "infiltrate $20 to 30 million" and 
try to undermine the PLO's policy in this way. 
  An important prerequisite for the reestablishment of 
diplomatic relations with Iraq is Baghdad's preparedness to deny 
residence to the People's Mojahedin, who are operating from 
Iraqi territory. On the Iraqi side of the border, the People's 
Mojahedin maintain several bases northeast of Baghdad, from 
which they mount attacks in Iran. There are "indications that" 
an agreement can be achieved on it with Iraq," said Velayati, 
who will travel again to Baghdad in July for the first time 
since the beginning of the Iraqi-Iranian war in 1980. Next 
week, an Iranian delegation will prepare Velayati's visit to 
Baghdad. The Iranian foreign minister will discuss the fate of 
25,000 missing Iranians from the first Gulf war and closer 
regional cooperation. He is prepared to also discuss the Iraqi 
aircraft that had been taken to Iran before the war for Kuwait's 
liberation. However, they can only be returned after a relevant 
UN decision has been made, Velayati said. The Iranian foreign 
minister, whose government repeatedly called for Saddam Husayn's 
overthrow in the past and is still granting asylum and support 
to leading members of the Iraqi opposition in Tehran, now said 
that the Iraqi people have to decide for themselves whether 
Saddam Husayn will continue to be in power. In 1987 Velayati 
still offered "new security guarantees" to the United Arab 
Emirates [UAE] in the event of Saddam's overthrow. Now he said 
that Iran will "not interfere in the internal affairs of Iraq." 
  The Iranian foreign minister warned the six member states of 
the Gulf Cooperation Council (Saudi Arabia, Oman, UAE, Kuwait, 
Qatar, Bahrain) against a military intervention in the Yemeni 
war and said: "This would be a big mistake in the region." Iran 
supports Yemen's unity. Velayati rejected assertions that 
Tehran is supporting the north Yemeni leadership with weapons. 

