Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] Lhasa, March 24 (XINHUA) -- The Tibet Autonomous 
Region has devoted great efforts to protecting the wildlife in 
recent years. 
  To protect wild animals in Tibet, known as "the roof of the 
world", the regional government set up the Tibet Regional 
Association for Wildlife Protection in 1991 and issued "Tibet 
Autonomous Region's Regulations for Implementation of 'The 
Wildlife Protection Law of the People's Republic of China'" in 
1992. 
  An official of the association said that Tibet is one of the 
regions rich in wildlife resources. There are more than 5,700 
plant species, 2,300 species of insects, 64 kinds of fish, 488 
kinds of birds and 142 species of mammals native to the region. 
  Tibet is also the habitat for 125 kinds of rare wild animals 
on the state's list for protection. 
  In recent years, Tibet has set up 13 nature reserves for 
protecting 10,000 wild yaks, more than 50,000 wild donkeys, 
about 50,000 Tibetan antelopes, 650 golden monkeys, 1,500 
black-necked cranes and 3,000 takins, a type of wild cow found 
in Tibet. 
  Liu Wulin, deputy general secretary of the Tibet Regional 
Association for Wildlife Protection, says the effort shows that 
most Tibetans realize the importance of protecting wildlife. 
  He said that with the joint efforts of the government and 
the 
people, the total rare animal resources have increased by 30 
percent. 

