BFN 

  [Text] Algiers, June 18 (AFP) -- The president of the 
Algerian Human Rights League (LADH), Youcef Fathallah, was shot 
and killed in his Algiers office Saturday, security officials 
said. 
  The officials gave no further details but witnesses said 
Fathallah, 64, was shot by a group of men who stormed into his 
office on Emir Abdelkader Square in central Algiers. 
  The president of the Algerian League for the Defence of 
Human 
Rights (LADDH), Abdennour Ali-Yahia, later appealed for an end 
to months of bloodletting in the north African state. 
  Ali-Yahia told AFP he had enjoyed "very good" relations with 
Fathallah, a lawyer and a member of the commission set up to 
investigate the June 1992 assassination of then-president 
Mohamed Boudiaf. 
  As a member of the commission, Fathallah had called for the 
closure of special internment camps set up in the Sahara desert 
for Islamic fundamentalists. He had headed the human rights 
league since 1991. 
  Fathallah was the fourth prominent Algerian killed this 
month 
following the assassinations by suspected fundamentalist 
militants of the rector of Bab Ezzouar University, Salah 
Djebaili, the chief of the government customs service Abdallah 
Moussouni, and journalist Ferhat Cherkit. 
  Nobody had claimed responsibility for the killing by 
mid-Saturday afternoon. 
  "The guns must fall silent, the blood must flow no more," 
Ali- Yahia said, adding that could only happen through dialogue 
between the authorities, the Islamic movement and political 
parties which received strong representation in the December 
1991 election. 
  Such parties would include former sole ruling party the 
National Liberation Front (FLN) and the Socialist Forces Front 
(FFS), he said. 

