BFN 

  [Text] Talal Sat'an al-Hasan, minister of state for cabinet 
affairs, at noon today received Marc Perron, deputy secretary 
general of the Canadian Foreign Ministry, who is the head of the 
working group on refugees, and his delegation. The delegation 
is currently on a fact-finding mission in the region to become 
acquainted with the conditions of the Palestinian refugees in 
their host countries in coordination with the UNRWA. 
  The minister briefed the Canadian official on the latest 
developments in the peace process and the central role of 
Jordan, under the leadership of His Majesty King Husayn, in 
advancing the peace process in accordance with the principles of 
international legitimacy, on which basis the process was 
launched. These principles were represented in Resolutions 242 
and 338. 
  The minister also explained the burden on Jordan as a result 
of the siege imposed on the Port of al-'Aqabah, and stressed 
that this subject should be given special attention and that a 
solution should be found to it in light of Jordan's commitment 
to the relevant international resolutions. 
  The minister also spoke about the additional burden Jordan 
bears in its capacity as the country hosting the largest number 
of Palestinian refugees, and stressed the need to reach a just 
and acceptable solution for their problems in accordance with 
the relevant international resolutions. 
  For his part, Perron praised the Jordanian efforts 
concerning 
the refugees in particular, and the role Jordan plays in the 
peace process in general. He expressed understanding for the 
difficulties and burden Jordan is facing, and emphasized the 
importance of making efforts to help reach a solution to the 
refugees problem in its humanitarian and political dimensions. 
  The meeting was attended by Marwan Dudin, member of the 
Jordanian delegation to the peace talks, and the Canadian 
ambassador in Amman. 

