Language: <F P=105> Portuguese </F>
Article Type:BFN 

<F P=106> ["Excerpts" of interview with Cuban Vice President Carlos </F>
Lage by Maria de Fatima Rodrigues; answers were sent in writing 
from Havana; date not given] 
  [Text] [Rodrigues] What are the difficulties facing Cuba as 
a result of the suspension of Soviet aid and the U.S. economic 
embargo? 
  [Lage] The adverse situation we have been facing ever since 
the collapse of the socialist bloc and the Soviet Union's 
disintegration is not a result of the suspension of Soviet 
assistance in itself, but the result of the loss of markets, the 
lack of fair prices, and the lack of mutually favorable economic 
and trade exchange conditions. Today we must face major 
disadvantages in our relations with the world. The hardening of 
the U.S. blockade and the pressures of all types applied by the 
United States against companies and governments make our access 
to credits difficult and undermine our efforts in the areas of 
trade and capital investment. 
  [Rodrigues] What is the country doing to survive? 
  [Lage] We are seeking new markets, new sources of capital, 
new technologies, and new paths for development conceived in the 
context of a community of nations that will disappear as a 
community, and in some cases nations that will disappear as 
nations. Meanwhile, we took some measures anticipating a virtual 
dismantling of the USSR even before it collapsed, such as 
increasing our exports and the replacement, as much as possible, 
of imported products by national products. We also gave 
incentives to savings in all fields and we urged a more rational 
use of available resources, particularly in the area of energy. 
  [Rodrigues] What are the embargo's most visible results? 
  [Lage] This will give you an idea of the sanctions' impact. 
In 1989 our imports totalled $8.2 billion. Three years later 
they were only worth $2.2 million [figures as published] and 
today they continue shrinking. We had to reduce our imports 70 
percent in only four years. And ours is an economy that depends 
on foreign trade to develop. We had to reduce the importation of 
vital products such as oil. 
  [Rodrigues] Cuba has not implemented such a deep program of 
changes in its economic structures as is being planned today 
since the transformation that accompanied the 1959 revolution. 
Is there a model that is being used as a basis? 
  [Lage] It is being mistakenly said abroad that Cuba must 
present a program of economic reorganization. We already have a 
model, the socialist model. 
  [Rodrigues] What is changing in Cuba in light of the new 
world economic context? 
  [Lage] For instance, it was necessary to adopt a group of 
urgent measures to transform our foreign trade system and 
reorient it to facilitate the search for new markets for our 
products. That is something easy to say but very difficult and 
complicated to implement, particularly considering that 85 
percent of our trade involved the Soviet Union and the other 
East European countries before 1989. We had to hurry to find 
markets for our sugar, nickel, and citrus, always having present 
the U.S. blockade's increasing pressure in each operation. 
Already operating in the country are 476 foreign commercial 
firms from nearly 40 countries, some of them with their own 
independent representation and others that are represented 
through national state and private companies. We also have 
sponsored a process of opening for foreign capital and allowed 
various kinds of associations, such as mixed enterprises in the 
tourist area. 
  [Rodrigues] But those changes are purely capitalistic, 
making 
the failure of the economic model conceived by the socialist 
system obvious, are they not? 
  [Lage] We cannot speak of a failure of the socialist system 
in Cuba. We found ourselves suddenly submerged in a crisis that 
originated abroad, that came from outside. With that I do not 
want to say that our model does not have insufficiencies, 
deficiencies, and mistakes. But the crisis was provoked by 
external factors, not internal reasons. And the situation was 
aggravated by the U.S. blockade of the country. Despite it all, 
we are determined to show that the Cuban socialist model not 
only did not fail, but it continues to be active and is seeking 
to get consolidated. We know our model is not perfect, but it 
has achieved many good things. 
  [Rodrigues] Does the economic opening have a limit? 
  [Lage] Practically all productive areas of the economy are 
open to possible associations with foreign investors. 
Regrettably, we cannot give details. Our experience forces us to 
use discretion to avoid pressures against entrepreneurs who 
might be interested in investing in Cuba. Today we can speak of 
an increased opening in the sense that some negotiations that 
were unthinkable only three years ago are being carried out 
today. 
  [Rodrigues] What countries are Cuba's main economic partners 
today? 
  [Lage] Our main partners are Russia, China, Spain, Canada, 
Italy, and France. 

