BFN 

    [Editorial Report] The following is a compilation of 
reports on drug seizures and arrests related to drug trafficking 
monitored through 2 June. 
<H5>  Argentina </H5>
  About 2.5 kg of opium were seized by police on 25 May in San 
Carlos de Bariloche. The drug was stashed in a sack of potatoes 
on a van near the border crossing with Chile, legal sources 
said. Six Chilean men in the van were arrested. (DYN) (Buenos 
Aires BUENOS AIRES HERALD in English 26 May 94 p 13) 
  Federal Police Dangerous Drug Division personnel identified 
the two drug traffickers arrested on 27 May in the Buenos Aires 
neighborhood of Barracas carrying 3 kg of very pure cocaine. 
They are Argentine Laureano Cherches, 61, and Chilean Amalia 
Elena Drago, 50. (Buenos Aires NOTICIAS ARGENTINAS in Spanish 
1508 GMT 30 May 94) 
  National Border Police personnel seized 2 kg of very pure 
cocaine and arrested three people during two separate highway 
stops in Salta and Tucuman Provinces. (Buenos Aires NOTICIAS 
ARGENTINAS in Spanish 2146 GMT 30 May 94) 
  Federal Police Dangerous Drug Division personnel on 1 June 
seized more than 4 kg of cocaine and elements to process the 
drug during two operations in the Buenos Aires neighborhoods of 
Villa Soldati and La Boca. (Buenos Aires NOTICIAS ARGENTINAS in 
Spanish 1602 GMT 1 Jun 94) 
  On 31 May, Federal Police seized 15,000 doses of LSD and 
arrested an Uruguayan during a raid on a restaurant in Buenos 
Aires' Barrio Norte District. The drug was concealed in 
stickers. (Buenos Aires NOTICIAS ARGENTINAS in Spanish 1437 GMT 
1 Jun 94) 
<H5>  Bolivia </H5>
  Mobile Police Unit for Rural Areas, Umopar, dismantled a 
huge 
cocaine processing laboratory that was about to start operations 
near the Los Paquicitos ranch in Beni Department. Umopar found a 
large quantity of precursors, equipment, and a landing strip. 
Umopar agents also seized 18 kg of cocaine in the township of 
San Javier, Santa Cruz. (Santa Cruz EL MUNDO in Spanish 23 May 
94 National Section p 1) 
  Colonel Luis Caballero, Umopar commander in Chimore, 
reported 
Umopar has seized 1,079 kg of cocaine and burned 10,000 kg of 
coca leaf in Chapare this year. He said 320 kg of cocaine were 
seized in 20 days in operations in Sinahota, Entre Rios, and 
other townships in the so-called "red zone." (La Paz PRESENCIA 
in Spanish 24 May 94 Second Section p 5) 
  Special Antinarcotics Force, FELCN, personnel on 24 May 
raided a cocaine laboratory in Angel Sandoval Province, on the 
bank of the Parapeti River in Los Yukis. They seized 84.5 kg of 
cocaine and chemicals, and arrested pilot Juan Carlos Landivar 
N., who was sought on charges of plane robbery in Brazil and 
Paraguay. The planes were then used to transport the drug to 
Brazil, Colombia, and the United States. (Santa Cruz EL MUNDO in 
Spanish 25 May 94 p 13) 
  A Santa Cruz court sentenced Zenobia Lopez Bravo on drug 
charges. She was arrested when she left 6.5 kg of sulphate 
cocaine on a train. (Santa Cruz EL MUNDO in Spanish 26 May 94 p 
13) 
  FELCN agents arrested Bolivian Juan Marco Carrillo Bazan and 
seized more than 100 cocaine capsules. The drug was to be taken 
to Argentina inside radio equipment. (Santa Cruz EL MUNDO in 
Spanish 24 May 94 p 13) 
  FELCN arrested 20 cocaine traffickers and seized a small 
airplane, vehicles, and property through 24 May during Operation 
Marraqueta. The FELCN and the DEA have been carrying out this 
operation for three days under strict secrecy in urban and rural 
areas. On 24 May, FELCN arrested alleged drug kingpins Mario 
Arteaga and Milko Earza. (Santa Cruz EL MUNDO in Spanish 25 May 
94 p 13) 
<H5>  Brazil </H5>
  On 25 May, police arrested Joao Batista Fialho, one of the 
major cocaine suppliers for the Rio de Janeiro shantytowns 
controlled by the Red Command gang. He also is charged with 
leading a gang that killed approximately 30 people in the Acari 
and Rocinha shantytowns. (Sao Paulo AGENCIA ESTADO in Portuguese 
2312 GMT 26 May 94) 
  Military Police on 25 May raided the house of bricklayer 
Jose 
Ferreira, 39, and seized 1,359 pieces of crack in the Ceagesp 
shantytown in western Sao Paulo. The drug was in 400 envelopes 
inside a package hidden in a hole. This is the biggest seizure 
of crack in Sao Paulo so far this year. (Sao Paulo AGENCIA 
ESTADO in Portuguese 2306 GMT 26 May 94) 
  On 27 May, Federal Police arrested Africans Alex Manu and 
James Oqai and seized nearly 5 kg of cocaine hidden in a 
false-bottomed bag. They were about to board a plane for Acra, 
Ghana. (Sao Paulo AGENCIA ESTADO in Portuguese 0135 GMT 27 May 
94) 
<H5>  Paraguay </H5>
  The Special Command Force, FEC, destroyed 45,000 kg of 
marijuana during Operation 4 May that began in early May in San 
Pedro, Concepcion, and Amambay Departments. FEC arrested Rafael 
Concha in a ranch in the Cruce Bella Vista settlement, 
Concepcion Department. (Asuncion NOTICIAS in Spanish 28 May 94 p 
50) 
  FEC personnel on 27 May destroyed 30 metric tons of 
marijuana 
in Cerro 21, 30 km southeast of Pedro Juan Caballero. FEC 
destroyed more than 70 metric tons of marijuana through 28 May 
in San Pedro, Concepcion, and Amambay Departments. (Asuncion 
NOTICIAS in Spanish 29 May 94 p 56) 
  The National Narcotics Directorate, Dinar, has seized more 
than 37 kg of very pure cocaine so far this year. The drug comes 
mainly from Bolivia and is sold in Ponta Pora, Pedro Juan 
Caballero, and Asuncion. It is finally taken to the United 
States by plane or ship. (Asuncion ABC COLOR in Spanish 29 May 
94 p 66) 
  Personnel from Dinar and the National Antinarcotics 
Secretariat seized more than 722 kg of marijuana during a raid 
in Nueva Germania District in Pedro Juan Caballero. (Asuncion 
ABC COLOR in Spanish 1 Jun 94 p 91) 

