Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] Guangzhou, February 26 (XINHUA) -- Private schools, 
which have been mushrooming throughout China in recent years, 
have been given greater importance in promoting education in 
south China's Guangdong Province. 
  A meeting in this provincial capital decided that private 
schools would have a bigger expansion in Guangdong, especially 
in the fields of pre-school and adult education, and vocational 
training. 
  The meeting, which was held to draw up a blueprint for the 
province's education in 1994, also allows private schools to pay 
more attention to the teaching of foreign languages, computer 
science and art in their syllabuses, provided that they also 
meet the education standards established by the state. 
  The meeting promised that non-profit private schools would 
get help from the government in funds and acquisition of land. 
  On the other hand, the meeting demanded that a complete set 
of regulations be established for a better administration of 
private schools. 
  Aimed at reforming the present public school system, the 
meeting decided that some elementary and high schools, as well 
as vocational training schools might be turned over to private 
operation through tendering. 
  Boosting the private school sector is only part of the 
province's education plan. Regarding education as a strategic 
move in the march to modernization over the next 20 years, the 
province now aims to set up a complete new education system. 
  Though Guangdong has, since 1978, invested more than ten 
billion yuan in building and repairing schools in addition to 
other types of educational investment, education officials said 
the development of education still can not meet the demand. 

