Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] Beijing, March 12 (XINHUA) -- The Chinese people, 
riding the crest of the country's sustained economic growth 
during its 15- year reform drive, witnessed big increases in 
their income in 1993. 
  Last year, the per capita income of urban residents averaged 
2,337 yuan, up 10.2 percent from 1992 and 7.4 times the figure 
for 1978. Average income for rural residents registered a 
589.37 percent increase compared with 1978. 
  The country also saw bumper harvests in farming, 
stock-raising and fisheries, resulting in rich supplies on the 
country's over 80,000 free markets. 
  Thanks to fast industrial development, especially in the 
light industry, a growing number of high-quality daily 
necessities has entered Chinese people's homes. 
  By the end of 1993, there were 87.25 washing machines, 58.06 
refrigerators, 80.71 color televisions, 81.62 stereo recorders, 
26.31 cameras and 11.36 video recorders per one hundred urban 
households. Bicycles, sewing machines and watches were popular 
in the countryside. Modern electronic appliances like 
televisions and cameras also made their way into country homes. 
  Statistics show that the country grossed a record 1,223.7 
billion yuan in the sales volume of consumer goods last year, 
increasing by 31.2 percent and 19.5 percent in cities and rural 
areas, respectively. 
  Living conditions also saw a considerable improvement in 
1993, with a historic high of 266 million sq.m. In newly-built 
residences cropping up in urban areas. The per capita living 
space for urban and rural inhabitants jumped to 20 sq.m. and 7 
sq.m. respectively, compared with 1978's 8.1 sq.m. and 3.6 sq.m. 
  There were over 1,400 billion yuan on Chinese people's 
deposit books last year, 70-fold the figure of 1978. 
  And life spans have become longer than before, with over 100 
million elderly above the age of 60 in the country. 

