CSO 

<F P=106> [ETA release titled: "HEIKI KRANICH: Reducing Estonia's </F>
Money Supply Is Inevitable"] 
  [Text] 
  ST. PETERSBURG (ETA). Estonia's money supply must be 
reduced, or it will cost Estonia dearly, said Finance Minister 
Heiki Kranich. 
  Kranich told ETA on the last day of the annual meeting 
of the European Bank of Reconstruction and Development [EBRD] 
that he is planning to discuss the matter of reducing Estonia's 
money supply with Bank of Estonia's president Siim Kallas. 
  "Inflation should be pushed back," Kranich said. "Should the 
Bank of Estonia maintain that inflation is a normal phenomenon, 
Estonia may wind up paying dearly for it," Kranich emphasized. 
  If the 1993 inflation indicators could be considered normal, 
then the rate of inflation during the first few months of 1994 
has been too high, said government advisor Madis 
&Ubreve;&AElig;urike. 
The principal cause for inflation, according to 
&Ubreve;&AElig;urike, 
is increased money supply, which is partly the result of 
Estonia's successful export activity. 
  EBRD president Jacques de Larosi&egrave;re had remarked, at 
his 
meeting with representatives of the Estonian delegation, that 
such a situation can be one of the drawbacks of great success, 
&Ubreve;&AElig;urike told to a group of businessmen assembled 
for a 
presentation held in connection with EBRD's annual meeting. 
  To reduce the money supply, securities should be issued so 
that people will have a chance to invest, Kranich said. 
  To the question how reduction of the money supply would 
affect Estonia's population, both Kranich and 
&Ubreve;&AElig;urike 
said that a rapid rate of inflation would have a devastating 
effect on the poorer segment of the population. Securities, 
however, would provide an investment opportunity for those who 
have money left over. 

