Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] Phnom Penh AKP January 13 -- Co-prime Ministers 
Prince Norodom Ranariddh and Hun Sen held talks here Wednesday 
[12 January] with Thai Premier Chuan Likphai who is on a 
three-day official visit to Cambodia. 
  During talks, the two sides agreed to cooperate in ensuring 
and restoring stability along Cambodian-Thai border. 
  On the disputes of the off-shore concerning oil exploration, 
the two sides agreed to leave the problems to be solved by the 
two concerned ministries of the two countries. 
  Chuan Likphai, the first Thai premier visiting Cambodia in 
decades, suggested the Royal Government of Cambodia examine and 
solve problems of dispute between Thai businessmen and the local 
people in Battambang Province about chit fund. 
  He also reiterated Thai Government's acceptance to give 
scholarship to 50 Cambodian students for continuing their study 
in the Kingkom of Thailand. 
  Also in the talks, the Cambodian side spoke of the problems 
of investment of the Thai businessmen in Cambodia, adding that 
"the Royal Government of Cambodia assured all foreign 
businessmen and investors, especially the Thais who do the 
business and investment in Cambodia." 
  The Royal Government of Cambodia has never cancelled any 
contract, said the Cambodian side. 
  Chuan who arrived here Wednesday is scheudled to participate 
in the opening ceremonies Thursday for two Thai-built bridges 
which link Aranyaprathet with Cambodia's Highway 5, through 
Poipet District and on to Sisophon. 

