Language: <F P=105> Arabic </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] Cairo, 21 Jan (MENA)--The Higher State Security 
prosecutor today questioned wounded terrorist Muhammad Ahmad 
Farhan, who is currently under guard at the al-Qasr al-'Ayni 
Hospital after taking part in the al-Ma'sarah incident on 
Wednesday. 
  The terrorist confessed that his fugitive colleague Tharwat 
Hajjaj is the leader of their organization, which is made up of 
12 persons. It was Hajjaj who planned for him and his terrorist 
colleague Sami Isma'il Salih the attacks on the Majidah and 
al-Marwah movie theaters, the attack on a tourist bus in Misr 
al-Qadimah, and the assassination of police Brigadier General 
Ahmad Sha'lan, he added. 
  The terrorist confessed that his colleague Hajjaj had been 
present with them in the apartment and taken part in throwing 
bombs at security troops, then he took his wife and three 
children and fled. He pointed out that his colleague Sami 
Isma'il Salih had been responsible for conveying instructions 
from Afghanistan to the defendants as well as recruiting new and 
young members. 
  Wounded terrorist Farhan added that he had joined the 
organization five years ago; that he is a follower of Dr. 'Umar 
'Abd-al-Rahman; and that he holds the belief that this society 
and regime are blasphemous. He noted that four members of 
Islamic groups had been frequenting the apartment in al-Ma'sarah 
to help prepare the bombs to be used in the operations. He 
confessed that he had taken part in the Zinhum incident, which 
was intended to assassinate some figures, and that he had 
committed 25 terrorist acts. 
  The prosecutor ordered the speedy arrest of defendant 
Tharwat 
Hajjaj as well as the four other defendants who frequented the 
al-Ma'sarah apartment. 

