BFN 

<F P=106> [Unattributed report: "Baghdad Offers Tehran Alliance </F>
Against `Common Enemies'"] 
  [Text] London, Tehran, AL-SHARQ AL-AWSAT -- Iraq has 
hinted at the possibility of making an offer to Iran regarding 
"a strategic alliance" against what it termed "common enemies." 
  The Iraqi offer is expected to be discussed in detail on the 
occasion of a visit to Iraq by a high-level Iranian delegation 
early next month. The delegation will prepare for a visit by 
Iranian Foreign Minister 'Ali Akbar Velayati, who will be the 
first Iranian minister to visit Iraq since 1978. 
  Trade and political contacts between Iran and Iraq have 
rapidly increased over the past 18 months following the two 
neighboring states' adoption of positive rapprochement when 
dealing with another. And it seems that Tehran is now convinced 
that a change in Iraq's leadership in current conditions would 
not serve Iran's long-term interests. 
  This is why Tehran is expressing its willingness to help 
Iraqi President Saddam Husayn to improve his position at least 
for the time being. 
  The two sides are working on a number of issues of "common 
interest," including the reopening of the Shatt al-'Arab 
waterway, which will enable the Iraqi port of al-Basrah and the 
Iranian port of Khorramshahr to resume their activities fully. 
  Both Tehran and Baghdad are aspiring to secure "a legal 
framework" for the border trade which is rapidly growing between 
them and whose volume is estimated at about $1.2 billion a year. 
This trade is conducted mostly by smugglers, and it supplies the 
Iraqi market with a wide range of commodities, including food 
and consumer durables. 
  The two sides are agreed in their determination to prevent 
the establishment of a separate Kurdish entity in northeast Iraq. 
  Iranian sources say that tightening the noose around the 
Kurdish "safe area" in north Iraq has become one of Tehran's 
priorities. And French oil companies are putting pressure on 
Iraq to normalize its relations with Iran so that work can begin 
in rich oilfields like the Majnun islands and Nahr 'Umar. 
  Costs of developing these oilfields are expected to reach 
about $12 billion over six years. Two giant French oil 
companies, namely Elf-Aquitaine and Total, have reached "initial 
agreements" with Iraq to develop these fields. Iraq must assure 
investors that the state of conflict with Iran has ended in 
order to secure the huge capital needed for this project, as 
most of the main Iraqi oil wells are situated near the border 
with Iran. 
  A project currently under study is expected to export Iraqi 
oil via the Iranian province of Khuzestan, thus avoiding Turkish 
territory and Syria, which Iraq regards as an archenemy. 
Besides, exporting Iraqi oil via Iranian territory makes it 
difficult for the United States and its allies to cut off Iraqi 
oil exports as a means of putting pressure on Baghdad. 
  Iranian Foreign Minister 'Ali Akbar Velayati announced 
yesterday that an Iranian Foreign Ministry delegation will visit 
Iraq "within the coming two weeks" to continue the discussions 
over normalizing relations between Baghdad and Tehran. 
  Velayati stressed that he is still hoping to go to Baghdad 
in 
July despite the delay in the Iranian mission's preparations for 
his visit. 

