BFN 

<F P=106> [Peter Scherer report: "Turks Control Heroin Trade"] </F>
  [Text] Wiesbaden -- Members of extremist organizations 
banned in Germany are suspected of not only being involved in 
the political underground in Germany, but also in international 
heroin deals, Klaus Juergen Timm, chief of the Criminal Office 
of the land of Hesse, told DIE WELT. Members of the Turkish 
right-wing extremist organization, Green Wolves, and of the 
militant Workers Party of Kurdistan [PKK] have been identified 
in this connection. 
  Turkish nationals are unquestioned market leaders in heroin 
dealings. The dealers who are linked mainly to Turkish-Kurdish 
drug organizations have also expanded their domination. 
According to the Criminal Office of Hesse, in 1993 Turks 
already formed 32.3 percent of all those suspected of being 
involved in the organized drug trade and drug smuggling. 
  Timm is convinced that "conspiratorial PKK command and 
communications structures" continue to exist even though they 
have been outlawed. Internationally coordinated activities are 
still possible. "The PKK must be considered an organization 
that is not only responsible for massive violent activity on 
German soil, but also deals harshly with its own people who 
break the rules, and does not shy from assassination," says 
Timm. "There is also evidence that the PKK is collecting money 
from Kurds living in Germany, and in large quantities. Whoever 
fails to donate willingly is compelled to donate, even with the 
use of force." 
  In addition, the PKK is being investigated for blackmail. 
Timm: "The problem is that we do not have witnesses who could 
confirm the criminal nature of the money-gathering activity. 
This is because the PKK places witnesses under pressure and is 
not afraid to use violence. One cannot normally investigate 
illegal financial dealings on the basis of acquired receipts 
alone." 

