CSO 

  [Text] As part of development of a linear motor train for 
use on water and land that has been advanced mainly by Kyushu 
University, the ``Marine Express (ME) Concept Research 
Committee'' (Kyushu University Engineering Department Professor 
Toshiaki Ota, representative) has succeeded in an experiment 
with levitating and running a model car (ME03) that has been 
equipped with permanent magnets. It is said that the premise of 
this experiment was land travel and, unlike the linear motor car 
that is being tested at the Japan Railways (JR) Research 
Institute in Miyagi Prefecture, which levitates only at high 
speeds, the ME03 can float even at standstill and is well-suited 
for city transport. The ME03 was unveiled to companies and 
relevant government agencies at a recently held meeting to 
report the results of the research. 
  The ME concept is a program for using magnetic force to 
levitate and run a train above rails laid on land and in the 
ocean. In June 1990, the model car ME01 was successfully tested 
for running under water, and the experiment with running the 
ME03 on land concludes the first stage of the experiments. 
Hereafter, plans for the second stage of experiments call for 
running a model of actual size. This stage is expected to last 3 
- 4 years, and the committee plans to request research funding 
from the national government. 
  The ME03 is composed of 3 cars. Total length is about 220 
centimeters (cm), width is 50 cm and height is 20 cm. Total 
weight of the cars is about 150 kilograms. In the experiment, 
the amount of current through a 10-meter coil on a rail was 
modulated and the cars were levitated and run by the resulting 
force of magnetic repulsion between the coil and the permanent 
magnets on the cars. 

