BFN 

<F P=106> [Report by Pia Weber: "Jagoda Wants a New Law on Part-Time </F>
Work"] 
  [Excerpt] Nuremberg -- Bernhard Jagoda, president of the 
Federal Employment Office (BA), has called for new social 
insurance regulations to accelerate the trend toward part-time 
employment. In addition to adjustments to the legislation on 
pensions, somewhat higher contributions to unemployment 
insurance must also be permitted so that part-time employees 
receive higher unemployment benefits when they are unemployed. 
  Speaking to HANDELSBLATT, Jagoda made a simple calculation: 
"Over the past 10 years, 1 million part-time jobs have been 
created for which social insurance contributions have to be paid 
without special conditions favoring such a development. Thus, I 
am confident that a further 2 million people could be in 
employment if the framework conditions for this kind of work 
were improved. There is a trend in this direction. It is only 
a question of accelerating it." 
  The BA president is of the opinion that a limited number of 
working hours should no longer be primarily available to women, 
but an alternative for men, too. The only important thing is 
that part-time employment should be voluntary. In addition, 
returning to full employment must also be an available option. 
  Confined to lower-level jobs until now, a workweek of 
between 
25 and 30 hours or any other number of weekly working hours 
should also be acceptable in higher positions. "This could also 
lead to a different kind of distribution of tasks. Why, for 
example, should a manager employed on a part-time basis not be 
able also to hold an honorary position in the Chamber of 
Industry and Trade?" [passage omitted] 

