Language: <F P=105> Spanish </F>
Article Type:BFN 

<F P=106> [Report by Carolina Sanchez; from the "NTC News" newscast] </F>
  [Text] Talks with attorneys representing Cali cartel 
members resumed over the past few hours despite the obvious 
cooling between the government and the Prosecutor General's 
Office over the drug traffickers' surrender process. The last 
meeting included the justice minister and the prosecutor general. 
  [Begin recording] [Sanchez] Government officials, Prosecutor 
General de Greiff, and attorneys representing the drug 
traffickers in Valle Department met again on the evening of 25 
February. This time the meeting focused on two specific topics: 
prisons and cooperation that should be shown by those criminals 
who have expressed their willingness to surrender. 
  [Justice Minister Andres Gonzalez] First we discussed the 
need to have these drug traffickers imprisoned in maximum 
security prisons. Second, we said their cooperation with the 
justice system must be efficient as [word indistinct] the 
surrender policy. 
  [Sanchez] The various organizations that participated in the 
meeting--the Administrative Department of Security, the 
Prosecutor General's Office, and the Justice Ministry--will 
review the proposals presented by the drug traffickers' 
representative, and the parties will meet again in eight days. 
  The government expects those criminals who surrender to 
cooperate efficiently with the system; that is, to provide 
evidence that can be used to prosecute other criminals and to 
help dismantle laboratories and drug trafficking networks. [end 
recording] 

