BFN 

  [Text] Uganda has welcomed the triumph of the ANC led by 
Nelson Mandela in the first all-race elections in South Africa. 
A statement issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in 
Kampala today stressed that the success of the ANC is not only a 
victory for one party alone but for all the 19 parties which 
participated in the elections, as well as the people of Africa 
who believe in equality, justice, and democracy. 
  The people of Uganda, the statement says, are proud to have 
been associated with the liberation struggle in South Africa 
through their moral, political, and material support. The 
statement adds that the people of Uganda salute president de 
Klerk for his steadfastness and courage amid threats, not only 
in organizing and ensuring free and fair elections but conceding 
defeat in a statesmanlike manner and agreeing to hand over power 
to the winner. We are deeply confident, the statement goes on, 
that the new South Africa under the leadership of the 
president-elect, Nelson Mandela, his ANC, and all other 
peace-loving people in that country will erect an unshakeable 
foundation on which peace, freedom, and unity will be built. 
Uganda, the statement concludes, welcomes the new nation of 
South Africa to its rightful place among the international 
community and looks forward to many years of mutual and friendly 
cooperation in all fields of common endeavor in order to make 
the world a safer and more prosperous place to live in. 

