Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] Brussels, Feb 16 (AFP) -- The European Commission 
fined 16 European steelmakers a record ECU104 million (115 
million dollars) here Wednesday [16 February] for running a 
steel beams cartel, with British Steel taking the brunt of the 
fines. 
  Announcing the decision, European Community Competitions 
Commissioner Karel van Miert said the largest fine -- ECU32 
million (35.2 million dollars) -- was imposed on British Steel 
-- nearly one third of the total. 
  Van Miert rejected allegations that the fines had anything 
to 
do with attempts by the EC executive to force private 
steelmakers into large steel production cuts in order to restore 
the ailing industry to profitability. 
  He said the steelmakers had operated a price-fixing and 
market-sharing cartel in clear infringment of EC competition 
rules since 1984, but that they had been fined for their 
activities only since July 1988. 
  Luxembourg steelmaker Arbed SA was fined ECU11.2 million 
(12.3 million dollars), the German firm Preussag AG ECU12.4 
million (13.7 million dollars), and the Unimetal affiliate of 
Usinor-Sacilor of France ECU12.3 million (13.5 million dollars). 
  Van Miert said British Steel received the biggest fine 
because it was the largest producer of steel beams used in the 
construction industry, and had played a leading part in the 
cartel. 

