BFN 

<F P=106> ["News Release"] </F>
  [Text] Estonian Prime Minister Mart Laar, who returned 
from a state visit to France on Thursday [5 May], told a press 
conference at the Tallinn Airport that his talks with French 
Prime Minister Edouard Balladur and Foreign Minister Alain Juppe 
centered mainly on one topic -- the as fast as possible 
integration of Estonia to Europe. 
  Laar said that Balladur stressed the need for Estonia to 
conclude, as soon as possible, a free trade agreement with the 
European Union and start negotiations to conclude an associating 
agreement. Together with Foreign Minister Alain Juppe a 
concrete schedule of Estonian integration towards Europe was 
discussed. 
  Laar gave credit in Estonia's quick movement especially to 
France and Germany. 
  Another issue that was discussed at the meetings was the 
current situation of Estonian-Russian relations and Russian 
troop withdrawal from Estonia. Laar said that if there existed 
fear that Estonia was having pressure upon her to conclude 
similar agreements with Russia as Latvia did, this fear was 
unfounded. Laar said that France had offered a possibility for 
Estonian-Russian inter-state negotiations to take place in the 
framework of European stability or the so-called Balladur pact, 
which would "increase the importance of the negotiations and 
help to make clear to Russia that mainly Russia will win from 
the troop withdrawal." 
  Estonian Minister of Economics Toivo Jurgenson, who 
accompanied Laar during the visit, said that Estonian delegation 
had also met high-level economic, banking and employers union 
representatives in France. He said that Estonia got a 
preliminary promise that France will guarantee, in the nearest 
future, middle-term credits for Estonia. 

