BFN 

<F P=106> [Peter Scherer report: ``Kanther: The PKK Will Not Be Left </F>
in Peace''] 
  [Text] Wiesbaden -- Interior Minister Manfred Kanther 
(Christian Democratic Union) has emphatically warned the banned 
extremist Kurdish Workers Party [PKK] against the continuation 
of its violent actions on German soil. In the event of further 
obvious infringements of the law, the state will react ``very 
clearly and in a tough manner because softness is apparently 
considered a weakness on our part,'' Kanther stated in an 
interview with DIE WELT. The appropriate instruments are the 
penal code, the aliens' law, the law relating to associations, 
and particularly ``serious consideration of deportation.'' 
Since it is obvious that numerous PKK supporters do not 
primarily fear the German penal code but are more afraid of 
having to leave the country, deportation must be applied as far 
as possible, Kanther stressed, confirming the government's 
position. 
  At the same time Kanther spoke in favor of examining all the 
Kurdish associations, some of which have recently been founded 
and which should be considered cover organizations for the PKK. 
Since the PKK continues its ``conspiratorial activities'' 
despite its ban in Germany, the minister demanded that the 
authorities should constantly examine PKK activities. The PKK 
should know that it ``will never again be possible for the party 
to carry out their activities unimpeded'' if it continues to 
resort to violence. ``We will continue to disrupt them.'' 
  However, this position toward militant Kurdish extremists 
does not rule out ``establishing closer relations with the 
peaceful Kurdish and Turkish population,'' Kanther stressed. 
Not all Kurds are PKK supporters. Many of them are threatened 
by PKK criminals and are afraid. In this connection, Kanther 
appealed to the overwhelming majority of the law-abiding Kurdish 
population in Germany to ``reject'' the influence of violent PKK 
criminals. The minister regretted that so far they have not 
``distanced themselves sufficiently'' from the PKK. 
  According to Kanther, the burden for internal security 
resulting from extremism among foreigners and general crime 
among foreigners represents a major challenge for the state. 
Serious crimes are often committed by foreigners who stay only 
for a short period in Germany, including particularly asylum 
seekers. 
  Yet internal security continues to be threatened by German 
extremists, too. During the interview, the interior minister 
admitted publicly for the first time that the antiterrorism 
operation of Bad Kleinen has only brought ``little progress 
concerning the knowledge about the terrorist Red Army Faction 
[RAF].'' However, the evaluation of the documents of the 
suspected terrorist Hogefeld has not yet been completed. 
  Irrespective of the numerous ``tensions, splits, and 
cracks'' 
within the RAF groups, one must still proceed from the premise 
that the terrorists continue to be dangerous, Kanther stressed. 
Yet there is no certain reply to the question as to whether the 
RAF is determined to continue carrying out individual terrorist 
operations. There is no doubt that the perpetrators have also 
realized the ``obvious failure of RAF terrorism to change social 
conditions.'' According to Kanther, the reason for the current 
ideological debate within the RAF is the ``emerging realization 
of the complete absurdity of their operations.'' 
  It is difficult to assess whether it is possible for the 
state to promote this process of reflection through certain 
signals, the minister pointed out. However, the state must 
refrain from ``wrong interpretations.'' ``This was the reason I 
insisted that the Bad Kleinen incident should be cleared up 
completely so as to refute the myth that a helpless man had been 
killed by the police.'' 
  Kanther made it totally clear in this respect ``that RAF 
criminals must be treated in the same way as other offenders.'' 
Those who obviously no longer represent a danger to their 
environment after many years in prison, those who repent their 
crimes and pledge not to commit any similar ones in the future 
can be spared punishment and pardoned on the basis of the 
existing law. However, ``if RAF criminals declare their 
continued support of violence and would thus represent a danger 
for their compatriots in freedom, they cannot be released.'' 

