BFN 

<F P=106> [By P.C. Tang and Y.C. Tsai] </F>
  [Text] Brussels, April 1 (CNA) -- Taiwan's wildlife 
conservation efforts have won recognition from a prestigious 
conservation group in Belgium. 
  The Royal League for the Protection of Birds, or Ligue Royal 
Pour la Protection des Oiseaus (LRPO), introduced Taiwan's 
protective measures for endangered species in its "HUMAN BEINGS 
AND BIRDS" (L'HOMME ET L'OISEAUX) quarterly. 
  The quarterly, which was published Thursday in French and 
Dutch, devoted nine pages to the report on Taiwan. 
  Although Taiwan has been blamed by some international 
conservation groups for its failure to crack down on the illegal 
trade of rhino horn and tiger bone, the island has taken a 
series of concrete measures to better protect wild animals in 
the past few years, the LRPO report said. 
  The measures include intensifying crackdowns on the illicit 
rhino horn and tiger bone trade and amendments to the wildlife 
conservation law which substantially increase punishments for 
violators, the report elaborated. 
  The report cited the arrest in Taipei of a Bhutan princess 
for smuggling rhino horns and the repatriation of orangutan to 
Indonesian jungles as solid evidence of Taiwan's sincerity in 
following international conservation practices. 
  Established in 1922, LRPO maintains a number of branch 
offices in Belgium. In addition to the publication of the 
quarterly to advocate wildlife conservation and environmental 
protection, the league also cooperates with other international 
groups to promote protection for endangered animals. 
  The league has expressed its hope to work with Taiwan on 
bird 
conservation and to exchange information on environmental 
protection. 

