Language: <F P=105> Chinese </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] The sample survey of the municipality's population 
changes in 1993 showed that by the end of 1993, the 
municipality's permanent population reached 9,280,200, an 
increase of 76,100 people over the same period of 1992. Of 
this, 99,000 people were born, 58,000 people were dead, and 
35,000 people moved from other places. 
  The analysis showed that the number of new born babies in 
1993 was reduced by 16,000 from 1992 and the birth rate was 
reduced by 1.79 per thousand. There are two reasons for the 
reduction. First, at the time of gradually deepening the 
scientific management of the birth control work, the 
municipality has increased the dynamics of the task that top 
party and government leaders personally engage in the management 
and assume sole responsibility for the birth control work. In 
particular, five counties have made preliminary achievements in 
birth control. Second, the number of new couples in 1992 was 
reduced by 6 percent from 1991. Thus, the population birth 
scale was reduced on an appropriate scale. 
  As calculated by the specialists, under the influence of the 
traditional feudalist idea about the "year of widows," many 
women got married in 1993 and before the 1994 Spring Festival. 
So, the number of new born babies in 1994 will be kept around 
100,000, and the permanent population of the municipality will 
possibly surpass 9.35 million. Therefore, the 1994 population 
situation is still grim, and the birth control work must not be 
ignored. 

