BFN 

  [Text] Cairo [Words indistinct] JAMAHIRIYAH NEWS AGENCY -- 
An authorised source at the Arab Libyan follow-up bureau in 
Cairo has confirmed that the Great Jamahiriyah was, and still 
is, one of the most keen countries on the achievement of 
international justice, and that the Great Jamahiriyah constantly 
asserts its full commitment to the implementation of 
international law. 
  In a comment made by the authorised source regarding the 
international welcome for the implementation of the 
International Court of Justice ruling in respect of Aouzou, he 
said that the great Jamahiriyah is renowned, with the testimony 
of the world and its international body, for such plausible 
conduct, which endorses legal settlement for disputes. The 
Great Jamahiriyah previously committed itself to the ruling of 
international law regarding the continental reef with each of 
Malta and Tunisia. The Great Jamahiriyah followed the same line 
of conduct in respect of its neighbour, Chad, thus giving one 
example after the other in the settlement of disputes through 
legal means, the thing which was praised by the spokesman on 
behalf of the United Nations secretary general, who paid tribute 
to the Great Jamahiriyah for implementing the International 
Court of Justice ruling on Aouzou. 
  The source went on to say: At the time when the Great 
Jamahiriyah re-asserts its commitment on the implementation of 
international law based on judiciary legitimacy and the rule of 
law, we find that other states claiming to lead the so-called 
new world order, act towards the violation of international laws 
and conventions and has not implemented resolutions previously 
issued by the International Court of Justice, such as the ruling 
in favour of Nicaragua, despite their claim for the sovereignty 
of international legitimacy. This makes us raise the question: 
What international legitimacy do they really want or claim, the 
force of law or the law of force? 

