BFN 

  [Text] Riga, Jun 09, BNS -- The consumer prices in Latvia 
rose 0.2 percent between April and May, according to figures 
from the State Statistics Committee. As reported, the inflation 
was 2.7 in April, 1.7 percent in March, 3.4 percent in February 
and 3.8 percent in January. Thus, in May compared with 
December, 1993, prices rose 12.4 percent. The annual 
inflation rate since May, 1993, is 32.2 percent. 
  In 1993 and 1994, inflation reached its peak last November 
when prices soared 8.8 percent. The prices went down last 
August when deflation ran at 1.7 percent. 
  The Cabinet rose the monthly minimum wages from 15 lats to 
22.5 lats, or 50 percent, beginning with May 1. 
  Regardless of inflation, the exchange rate of the national 
currency, the lat, against the Special Drawing Rights [SDR] 
currency basket remained stable 79.97 santimes against 1 SDR 
unit. 
  The Bank of Latvia's refinancing rate also remained 
unchanged, it was 27 percent per year. Simultaneously, the 
hidden interest rates in auctions of state treasury bills rose 
from 29 percent to 39 percent. The average discount rate of 
state securities was 23.5 percent in May. 
  The monthly inflation rate in Latvia should not exceed 0.5 
percent, according to requirements in the joint economic 
development memorandum of Latvia and the International Monetary 
Fund. In Estonia, the inflation ran at 1.1 percent in May, in 
Lithuania -- 6.2 percent, in Russia -- 8.7 percent. 
  In Latvia, the prices of foodstuffs dropped 1.2 percent, 
clothing and footwear became 1.5 percent more expensive, public 
utility bills increased 0.7 percent while household expenses 
were 0.9 percent up. Health care spendings rose 2 percent, 
prices of communications and transport grew 1.1 percent, culture 
and education required 2.9 percent larger spendings while 
alcohol and tobacco prices increased 0.1 percent. 

