Language: <F P=105> Chinese </F>
Article Type:CSO 

<F P=106> [Article by Zhao Zhuliang (6392 4554 5328) of the Central </F>
China Teachers' College, edited by Xu Honghai (6079 1347 3189): 
"The State of China's Physically Challenged Persons in the 
Course of Modernization"] 
  [Excerpt] [passage omitted] 
  In recent years, along with the development of China's 
physically challenged persons' cause, while the condition of 
this large and special group has improved to a certain extent, 
the current state of physically challenged in areas such as 
economics, education, jobs, and recovery, generally remains far 
behind the average level of the society as a whole. 
  1. The threat-to-survival crisis. Statistics show 
that of the 4.9 percent of China's population that are 
physically challenged, as many as 20 million are struggling to 
survive below the subsistence line, with 70 percent of 
physically challenged existing only with the support of family 
and relatives or on state or collective relief. 
  A study reported in the 1993 No 2 issue of ZHONGGUO CANJI 
REN 
[CHINA'S DISABLED PERSONS] says that: "Many physically 
challenged remain in great hardship, with basically not enough 
food and clothing. For instance, in Shaoyang City, Hunan 
Province, where economic conditions are better, the average 
income in 1991 was 545.19 yuan for the rural population, but 
only 264.64 yuan for physically challenged, or less than 
one-half. In Shaoyang's Xinning County, poverty-stricken 
physically challenged make up 64.4 percent of all physically 
challenged, with 17.2 percent in exceptional poverty." 
  A document put out by the China Coalition for the Disabled 
(the 1992 Document No 126 of the Coalition for the Disabled) 
contains the following item: While poverty relief is carried 
out, in certain developed or more developed areas, 70-80 percent 
of the poverty-striken population below the local subsistence 
line are physically challenged. While Shunyi County has only 
200 poverty-stricken families, 97 percent of them are families 
of the physically challenged. In one village in Chengde, all 
those living in thatched houses are physically challenged. Of 
the poverty-stricken population in 1991, physically challenged 
made up 80 percent in Qingdao, over 70 percent in Jiangsu, and 
50 percent in Yunnan, Guizhou, and Sichuan. 
  2. The inequality-of-education crisis. The 
national rate of illiteracy or semi-literacy was 20.6 percent in 
1987, but down to 15.6 percent by the end of 1991, while 
illiteracy of the physically challenged stood at 68 percent. 
And the national school-entrance rate for school-age children 
was 97.1 percent in 1987, and up to 97.8 percent by the end of 
1991, while this rate in 1987 was 2.7 percent for blind 
children, 5.5 percent for deaf and dumb children, and 0.33 
percent for low-intelligence children. By the end of 1991, the 
school-entrance rate for blind, deaf, and low-intelligence 
children was less than 10 percent. 
  This gap is even larger for education above the high-school 
level. Before 1984, almost none of China's physically challenged 
went to school above the high-school level. Since 1984, while 
physical-examination criteria have been amended, enabling about 
1,700 physically challenged a year to meet 
political-examination, grades, and physical-examination 
standards for college admission, nearly 900 of these a year are 
still not admitted. By 1992, only a little over 5,000 physically 
challenged throughout China had received higher education at the 
university level. 
  Poverty and ignorance always go together. Approximately 70 
percent of China's physically challenged are dependent on the 
support of family and relatives or state and collective relief, 
which figure is alarmingly close to the rate of illiteracy and 
semi-literacy among physically challenged. This warns us that 
a longstanding lack of education makes it hard for physically 
challenged to overcome their dependence on others and on 
society, leaving them in the regretable plight of being a social 
burden. 
  3. The job-obstacle puzzle. While jobs are a 
means of livelihood, the terms on which individuals display 
their talent and grow, and the way that everyone can contribute 
to society, the jobs situation among China's physically 
challenged is far from desirable. In recent years, China's 
urban unemployment rate has been around 3 percent, and was down 
to 2.6 percent by 1991, while 49 percent of physically 
challenged were unemployed. In our rural areas, nearly 30 
percent of employable or partially employable physically 
challenged were without jobs. 
  When physically challenged choose jobs, their range of free 
job-choice is very small. A sample survey shows the job 
situation for physically challenged in china has the following 
features: 1. By job classification, 81.2 percent work in 
farming, forestry, livestock raising, and fishery; 9.8 percent 
in production, transportation, and post and telecommunications; 
5.5 percent in commercial service; 2.1 percent as specialized 
technicians; and 1.4 percent as government collective-enterprise 
officials, office workers, and at other jobs. 2. As to manual or 
mental labor, 96.6 percent of physically challenged work in 
manual jobs, such as agriculture, industry, and commerce, while 
only 3.4 percent work at mental jobs, such as specialized 
technicians and government enterprise officials, which is lower 
than the national ratio of mental laborers to the population of 
8 percent. 
  4. The health-care-security deficiency. While a 
1987 national sample survey showed that the most crucial need of 
about 50 percent of physically challenged was for treatment, 
recovery, and the necessary supplementary appliances, a 1992 
sample survey of 11 provinces found that 97 percent of 
physically challenged needed supplementary appliances and 
special articles, which nearly 90 percent could not obtain. 
  China has 4.9 million people who have gone blind because of 
cataracts, and 17.7 million deaf people (of whom 1.71 million 
are children under the age of 14, and 740,000 are infants under 
the age of 7), with every year bringing about 30,000 new deaf 
children, and 1.24 million suffering from the aftermath of 
polio. By the end of 1992, only a little over 700,000 had had 
cataract surgery, only a little more than 280,000 had had 
corrective surgery for polio [infantile paralysis], and only 
slightly more than 29,000 deaf-mutes had been trained to sign. 
This data shows that the health-care-security deficiency keeps 
many physically challenged in bed for long years, cut off from 
the world, and unable to take an equal part in social activities. 
  5. The marriage-and-family misfortune. A 1987 
sample survey showed that of the 43 million adult physically 
challenged throughout China, 20.21 million, or 47 percent of 
adult physically challenged, did not have spouses, while the 
national unmarried rate for adults was roughly 8 percent; the 
family divorce rate for the physically challenged was a high of 
1.46 percent, almost triple the sound-family divorce rate of 
0.55 percent; and the widowed rate for physically challenged 
was 32.17 percent, more than quadruple the healthy widowed rate 
of 7.61 percent. Their physical defects, psychological barriers, 
and social and economic status limitations turn the marriage and 
family matter for physically challenged into the most 
troublesome problem they face. 
  In short, within the general setting of the Chinese people's 
march toward becoming comfortably well-off, two-thirds of 
physically challenged still cannot support themselves, with 
nearly 20 million not having enough food and clothing; 
physically challenged have a high 68-percent illiteracy rate, 
with almost 90 percent of blind, deaf, and low-intelligence 
children not in school; quite a few employable physically 
challenged have no jobs, for a high 49-percent unemployment 
rate; and most physically challenged have not obtained the care 
needed for recovery... leaving such an enormous and shocking 
social problem harshly confronting society and physically 
challenged. 
  [passage omitted] 

