BFN 

<F P=106> [Interview with boat Captain Arnel Lopez and soldiers </F>
Norberto Duran and Misael Valentin by unidentified reporter in 
Caimanera, Guantanamo Province, date not given -- recorded] 
  [Text] This newscast recently reported an attempt to hijack 
a boat in Caimanera, which was thwarted by a group of young men 
who are now the recipients of the people's gratitude for having 
safeguarded the people by risking their lives. 
  In a ceremony of thanksgiving for the peace of mind that was 
interrupted by scoundrels and traitors, Caimanera sings of love 
and duty in the voice of this girl . 
  [Begin recording] [Reporter] What made you suspect their 
plans? 
  [Lopez] Because they were asking too many questions. People 
going to do a job do not have to ask so many questions. 
  [Reporter] Questions that made you suspicious? 
  [Lopez] Because I have taken comrades to work there [as 
heard] before, and they go to do their work and that is all. 
  [Duran] We were beginning to sense their plans and kept 
glancing at one another. We all had the same idea. I decided to 
tell the boat captain: Quick Arnel, turn around and head for 
Caimanera. Right then, one of them surprised me and threw me 
overboard. At the same time, they attacked my partner. 
  [Reporter] There were five of them and three of you. 
  [Duran] Three: two guards and the boat captain. 
  [Lopez] When I heard the scuffle in the back, my first 
action 
was to turn off the motor. As I turned around, one of the men, 
the ringleader, was coming at me with a gun. I grabbed his hand 
and fought it out of his grip. 
  [Reporter] What did you do to stop the boat? 
  [Lopez] I tore the cables off and killed the motor's 
acceleration. 
  [Reporter] In other words, the boat could not be moved. 
  [Lopez] They were going anywhere with the boat. 
  [Misael Valentin] When they attacked us, the first thing in 
our minds was that they could not take away the boat. 
  [Lopez] Valentin was hit four times in the chest. 
  [Reporter] Where did you pick him up? 
  [Lopez] In the sea, the canal, swimming. 
  [Valentin] After shooting me, they threw me over overboard. 
  [Reporter] They shot at you again in the water? 
  [Valentin] After I hit the water, they shot me twice. 
  [Duran] I told him to go underwater and also did so 
ourselves 
because he was heading our way and the shot was aimed in our 
general direction. We all went underwater and when we 
resurfaced, he told me: Duran, help me, help me, I am shot and 
cannot stand it any longer. 
  Then I swam quickly toward him. At that time, the enemy, who 
was still on the boat, jumped overboard and tried to swim away 
because the boat of the Antiaircraft Defense and Revolutionary 
Air Force [DAAFAR] was approaching. But the DAAFAR comrades 
captured him. 
  [Valentin] If a bullet had gone onto the American side, it 
would have created a conflict with worldwide repercussions, in 
addition to feeding their propaganda against Cuba. 
  [Reporter] You knew that right then, you were defending your 
country? 
  [Lopez] Yes, and as many times as necessary, I will continue 
to defend it, even if the price is my life. What I love is my 
country and the Revolution, in which I have grown and lived. 
  [Reporter] All 20 years if your life. 
  [Lopez] All 20 years of my life. [end recording] 

