Language: <F P=105> Spanish </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] Lima, 8 Mar (EFE) -- Military sources officially 
reported in Lima on 8 March that over the last eight days a 
total of 152 natives from the Peruvian Ashaninka ethnic group 
have managed to escape from the control of the terrorist group 
Shining Path, which had been holding them captive in the 
tropical forest area of Junin Department. 
  According to an official communique released today by the 
Ucayali Front Political Military Command, a group of 119 
Ashaninkas arrived at a countersubversive base of the Peruvian 
Navy located in Poyeni, Satipo Province, after fleeing from the 
grip of the terrorist group that had abducted them. 
  The communique states that the group was made up of 60 
children, 30 women, and 29 men. 
  On 6 March Army patrols rescued 25 Ashaninkas, who had been 
virtually reduced to slavery by Shining Path, in Shanquireni, 
another village in the tropical forest area of Junin Department. 
  A communique from the Political Military Command of the 
Central National Security Subregion states that this group was 
composed of 13 children, five women, and seven men. 
  Another military source reported that another eight 
Ashaninkas were released in Gloriabamba, located in the same 
jurisdiction. 
  All the communiques noted that the Ashaninkas were ill, 
suffered from severe malnutrition, and had been psychologically 
affected. 
  Ashaninkas have been held captive in several areas of Peru's 
central tropical forest by Shining Path, who used them as 
activists under threat of death and as their servants for 
household chores and agricultural activities under a system of 
virtual slavery. 
  Security forces have managed to release a considerable 
number 
of captives over the last few years, but there are still areas 
where the Maoist group holds them in captivity. 

