BFN 

  [Text] Kunming, June 28 (XINHUA) -- Light industrial output 
value has finally surpassed that of heavy industry in Yunnan, 
and the province boasts ample supplies of grain and meat instead 
of relying on other provinces, marking the success of economic 
readjustment in the remote southwest province. 
  Over the past 15 years, the province's financial revenue has 
shown 17-fold growth, well above the national average. The 
province, which makes 70 percent of China's top quality 
cigarettes, has also stepped up technological renovation of its 
tobacco industry. 
  Meanwhile, the province has become China's third largest 
sugar producer and its tea production alone earns 30 million 
U.S. dollars in hard currency for the province. 
  According to local sources, the province produces 10 percent 
of China's nonferrous metals. Such sectors as machine-building, 
electronics, rubber and phosphochemicals have also developed 
rapidly. 
  Meanwhile, new sectors such as power, food processing, 
animal 
husbandry and medicine are expected to emerge as the province's 
major industries. 
  The construction of a group of major hydroelectric power 
stations like Lubuge, Manwan and Dachaoshan, with a total 
investment of 20 billion yuan, will push Yunnan's electricity 
capacity from the existing 3.07 million kw to nine million kw by 
the year 2000. 
  To further enhance economic readjustment in the province, 
Yunnan will pour a total of 13 billion yuan into the 
construction of water conservancy projects. Ambitious plans are 
being mapped out to build highways, airports and large 
telecommunications projects to modernize this remote Chinese 
province. 

