Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] Tokyo, March 28 KYODO -- Police arrested two 
trading company executives Monday [28 March] on suspicion of 
illegally exporting restricted technology to China, Tokyo 
metropolitan police department officials said. Police arrested 
Norimichi Sugiyama, president of Traders Co. in Chiba 
Prefecture, and Katsuhisa Iida, president of Tokyo-based 
Hightech Co., on suspicion of violating the Foreign Exchange and 
Foreign Trade Control Law by exporting image intensifier tubes 
to Beijing. 
  The technology can be used for military satellites. Exports 
are restricted by the Coordinating Committee for Multilateral 
Export Controls (Cocom), a Cold War-era watchdog set up by the 
western allies to control exports of sensitive technology to the 
East bloc. 
  The Cocom controls are to be abolished at the end of March. 
  The case was uncovered during a police probe of Traders Co. 
and other trading houses which are suspected of being involved 
in similar exports to North Korea, police sources said. 
  Police also arrested three executives of Yokohama Machinery 
Trading Co., which was raided by police in January. The company 
was suspected of making high-tech exports to Pyongyang and 
selling used cars to North Korea. 
  Meanwhile, the Ministry of International Trade and Industry 
(MITI) reported the Chiba and Yokohama trading houses to police 
on charges of violating the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade 
Control Law. 

