Language: <F P=105> Urdu </F>
Article Type:CSO 

<F P=106> [News Report: ``Member of Important Groups Arrested </F>
Smuggling Counterfeit Currency and Heroin''] 
  [Text] Peshawar (News Reporter) -- Qaumi Tehriq of Darra 
Adam Khel has foiled an effort to smuggle a huge quantity of 
forged currency notes, liquor, and heroin, and arrested an 
Afghan refugee. The Tehriq officials have fined the criminal 
150,000 rupees for supplying drugs. According to details, Ajab 
Khan, chief of the Mujahid Guard at Darra Adam Khel, learned 
from confidential sources that suspect Akram Khan, son of Nur 
Ghulam of Milan Khel, was involved in supplying drugs in various 
areas using his pickup truck. The guard, with this information, 
started to monitor the suspect's movements, and yesterday 
morning confiscated his truck near Aimal Chabutra. An Afghan 
refugee named Akram was arrested, and 100 grams of heroin, three 
bottles of whiskey, and 12,000 counterfeit currency notes were 
recovered from his person. The accused was presented in court. 
He admitted that the items recovered from the pickup belonged to 
Akram Khan, son of Nur Ghulam. In light of the accused's 
statement, the court fined Akram Khan 150,000 rupees. According 
to the press release issued by Tehriq, the accused declared 
himself a member of a very important gang, and has been involved 
in this abominable business for a long time. 

