BFN 

<F P=106> [Report by Werner Urbanek: "Happy To Be Alive"] </F>
  [Text] "Ustasha pigs," "Line them up at the wall now," "We 
should slit your throats." This is what the Serbs shouted at 
the three ORF [Austrian Radio and Television] journalists: 
Belgrade correspondent Veronika Seyr, camera man Valentin 
Certov, and a Yugoslav assistant. "We are happy to be alive," 
they say. 
  What happened? On Wednesday [27 April] the ORF team had gone 
to Gorazde: "We had official permission of the Bosnian Serbs to 
go to the checkpoint. From there Ukrainian UN soldiers took us 
to the town. We were there for three hours. Not a single shot 
was fired, and the people told us that the Serbs had withdrawn. 
Then we went back again." 
  In Pale, 50 km away, the ORF team cut its report in a REUTER 
news agency studio: "We had just finished, and one minute 
before we were to transmit the report to Vienna, the room was 
stormed by armed men. They ordered me to hand over the tape 
immediately." 
  Courageously, the ORF correspondent tried to resist: "More 
and more men pushed into the room and verbally abused us. The 
men from the television station were most aggressive." 
  Finally, the Austrians were escorted to their quarters in 
Jahorina, where their entire equipment was seized: "I guess it 
was worth about 2 million schillings, including camera and 
satellite telephone. We were treated like serious criminals." 
  Three hours later everything was over. The next day Veronika 
Seyr was permitted to return to Belgrade, but she had to leave 
her equipment: "I cannot work anymore," she says. 
  The ORF has asked Foreign Minister Mock to issue a vehement 
protest to the authorities in Belgrade. 

