BFN 

  [Text] In response to the Chinese Foreign Ministry 
spokesman's 16 June statement, the SRV Foreign Ministry 
spokesman on 17 June issued the following statement: 
  The fact that China claimed that the Tu Chinh area, which it 
calls the Wan An Reef, is part of China's Nansha [Spratly] 
islands and that China has signed agreement to explore for oil 
with the U.S. Crestone Energy Corporation in the area are in 
defiance of the principles of international law and practice, 
especially the 1982 UN Convention on the Law of the Sea. 
  It is an undeniable fact that the Tu Chinh area lies 
entirely 
within Vietnam's exclusive economic zone and its continental 
shelf. The Tu Chinh area, which China calls the Wan An Reef, and 
which Vietnam has always asserted its sovereignty over has no 
connection with the Truong Sa [Spratly] archipelagoes [khu vuwcj 
tu chinhs ma trung quoocs gooij laf vanj an bawcs nayf khoong 
lieen quan gif deens quaanf dqaor truongf sa maf vieetj nam dqax 
luoon luoon khawngr dqinhj laf thuoocj chur quyenf cuar 
vieetnam] For quite some time now, Vietnam has built material 
bases and has carried out normal activities in exploring and 
exploiting natural resources in the Tu Chinh area. This act is 
totally in conformity with the international law. 
  In the interest of developing relations between Vietnam and 
China and for the interest of peace and stability in the region, 
China should not make statements or act in violation of 
Vietnam's undeniable sovereignty in this area. 

