BFN 

  [Text] Sources at the Jordanian Ministry of Foreign Affairs 
have revealed that Jordan is coming under U.S. pressure to take 
part in the multilateral negotiations, two committees of which 
will meet in Muscat on 17 April and Doha later this month. 
  The sources added: The Jordanian position announced by His 
Majesty King Husayn has made Jordan's continued engagement in 
the peace talks contingent upon easing or ending the al-'Aqabah 
blockade. His majesty the king also said that the Jordanian 
participation in the talks will be token pending a resolution of 
this issue. Consequently, Jordan will send observers to the 
talks. 
  AKHBAR AL-USBU' also learned that Jordan has definitely 
decided not to participate in the meetings of the working group 
on water sharing, which will begin in Muscat on 17 April. The 
sources added that the Jordanian participation in the talks will 
be actual, rather than token if the U.S. position improves 
before the convening of the Muscat meetings, and if Jordan 
realizes that measures will actually be taken to end or ease the 
blockade. 
  Moreover, AKHBAR AL-USBU' also learned that Jordan's 
position 
toward participation in the Doha meetings of the working group 
on arms control due to convene on 24 April is the same as its 
position toward participation in the Muscat meetings, and that 
Jordan is making its continued actual participation in the peace 
process meetings contingent upon a solution to the problem of 
the blockade enforced against the Gulf of Aqaba. 

