Language: <F P=105> Arabic </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Excerpts] Cairo, 23 Jan (MENA) -- The Higher State 
Security Prosecution has completed its investigations on the 
defendants charged with attacking a bus carrying 16 Korean 
tourists on al-Haram Street in February 1993. Public Prosecutor 
Counselor Raja' al-'Arabi is expected to refer the eight 
suspects in this case to the Higher State Security 
Court-Emergency in the next few days for trial, according to a 
memorandum prepared by Counselor 'Abd-al-Sami' Sharaf-al-Din, 
public prosecutor of the Higher State Security Prosecution. 
  The defendants are Hamdi Kamil, Abu-al-'Ula Muhammad 
'Abd-Rabbuh, Muhammad Ibrahim, Ahmad 'Abd-al-Maqsud, 'Antar 
al-Zayyat, Majdi Muhammad al-Sayyid, Tariq Fahmi, and 'Abir 
Faris 'Abd-al-Hamid. They face several charges following 
investigations conducted by Usamah Qandil, chief of the Higher 
State Security Prosecution. The charges are criminal conspiracy 
to attack tourists to harm national revenue; possessing 
unlicensed firearms, explosives, and ammunition to breach 
security and public order; attempted murder of the tour bus 
driver and 16 Korean tourists; and destroying tourist and police 
vehicles. [passage omitted] 
  MENA has learned that most of the defendants had been 
previously charged in connection with terrorist cases. 
Defendants Abu-al-'Ula Muhammad 'Abd-Rabbuh, Tariq Fahmi, Majdi 
Muhammad al-Sayyid, Hamdi Kamil, and Muhammad Ibrahim had stood 
trial for killing two soldiers near Bulaq al-Dakrur Railway and 
stealing their automatic weapons. MENA also learned that 
defendant Abu-al-'Ula Muhammad Abd-Rabbuh was previously tried 
in connection with the assassination of [writer] Dr. Faraj Fudah 
and sentenced to 15 years hard labor. 

