Language: <F P=105> Spanish </F>
Article Type:BFN 

<F P=106> [Report by Eduardo Barberena S.] </F>
  [Text] While the Antidrug Bill stagnates at the National 
Assembly, drug trafficking and consumption continue to grow as 
the crisis that overwhelms us. According to the latest police 
reports for the 1981-89 and 1990-93 periods, the consumption of 
drugs has increased 112 percent. 
  Leonel Espinoza, National Police deputy director and 
regiment 
commander, presented the raw figures on drug trafficking and 
consumption of cocaine, crack, and marijuana to the National 
Assembly at a debate of the drug bill, which is being examined 
by magistrates, government ministry officials, and delegates 
from nongovernment organizations. 
  During the forum-debate, which was sponsored by the National 
Assembly, the Program to Support the Promotion of and Training 
for Human Rights in Central America [UCA-CEE], and the National 
Antidrug Committee, the deputy police chief gave a historical 
account of drug trafficking activities in the Atlantic up to 
1989, when cocaine was traded for liquor, home appliances, and 
shrimp near Corn Island. 
  When the current government assumed office on 25 April 1990, 
the control and surveillance systems in the national territory 
virtually disintegrated and South American drug cartels launched 
a plan to make Nicaragua the springboard for shipping drugs to 
the United States, Europe, and other countries of the world. 
People who had relations with drug dealers in the United States 
began arriving in Nicaragua in 1990. These people had the 
ability to set up traffic routes and make the country a drug 
warehouse. "We have no doubts that large quantities of drugs are 
passing through Nicaragua en route to the United States," 
Commander Espinoza said in a debate attended by only five of the 
Assembly's 92 members. Criminal Prosecutor Jose Antonio Fletes 
and National Assembly Drug Commission head Doris Tijerino have 
criticized the absenteeism. 
  According to official statistics, 535.936 kg of cocaine were 
seized, 20 marijuana plots were discovered, and 145 people were 
arrested in 1990. In 1991, 761.642 kg of cocaine and 13 bundles 
plus 33 kg of marijuana were confiscated, 5,570 marijuana plants 
were destroyed, and 58 people were arrested. In 1992, the police 
seized 155.449 kg of cocaine, nine kg of heroin--the latter in 
an Ecuadoran-made picture frame bound for Ecuador from Istambul 
aboard a banana-carrying ship--and 1,124 pounds (lb) of 
marijuana, and 31,068 marijuana plants were destroyed. In 
addition, 430 people were arrested. 
  In 1993, authorities seized 96.209 kg of cocaine, 517 lb of 
marijuana, and 159 crack lumps, destroyed 9,408 plants, and 
arrested 1,517 people. This indicates a larger number of people 
involved in drug trafficking. In 1994, 540 kg of cocaine were 
confiscated in the Ocean Operation; 108 kg were confiscated in 
Puerto Cabezas in a boat reportedly to have arrived with 900 kg. 
The community of Sandy Bay and Brooklyn Rivera surrendered 93 
kg. The police recovered another 20 kg. In all, 108 kg of drugs 
were confiscated and later destroyed in Puerto Cabezas. 
Commander Espinoza confirmed that in Managua raids, the police 
have found cocaine from a shipment arriving aboard launches 
through Sandy Bay in the Atlantic. 
  From January to March this year, the police have seized 574 
kg (450 in the Oceano Operation), 108 from Sandy Bay, and the 
rest from drug traffickers, Espinoza said. From 1990-93, 
1,549.23 kg of cocaine were seized by the police. Of these, 
1.227 tonnes came from the international drug market and 322 kg 
from the local market. Most of it from the Atlantic. The amounts 
seized have been increasing steadily. In comparison with 
international parameters, Nicaraguan authorities barely catch 
four percent of the total traffic. Comparing police statistics 
for the 1981-89 and 1990-93 periods, "we see that drug 
trafficking has increased 112 percent, a very alarming number," 
he said. 
  Referring to the drug bill which the Assembly is debating, 
he 
said it is essential. He pointed out, however, that some of the 
articles on confiscation "should specify that the drug seized 
should be accredited 50-50 percent to the Police and the Health 
and Education Ministries." 

