CSO 

  [Text] Federal Police [PF] agents discovered six kg of pure 
cocaine in a clothes washing machine shipped on a Varig flight 
that took off from Asuncion, Paraguay, heading for Rio. The 
washing machine was seized on Monday night, in the cargo storage 
facility of the international airport's blue section. The police 
are investigating the records of Juan Carlos Gutierrez, who 
shipped the drugs, and Antonia Gutierrez, who was supposed to 
receive them in Rio. 
  According to the Federal Police, the final destination of 
the 
cocaine was Nigeria. The policemen claimed that it was typical 
of the "Nigerian connection" to transport drugs concealed in 
household electrical appliances. Last year, the PF confiscated 
nearly 400 kg of cocaine in fans, air circulators, freezers, and 
compressors. This time, the traffickers had put six tablets of 
the narcotic (each containing one kg), attached to a layer of 
fiberglass, in the washing machine, which was of the Lavy Mak 
brand. 
  On the same day, the police agents captured two Nigerians 
who 
were attempting to board Varig flight 794 for Lagos, Nigeria, 
with 1.5 kg of cocaine. The traffickers had concealed the drugs 
under their clothing in two transparent plastic bags attached to 
their bodies with an elastic tape. They admitted that they were 
to receive $800 for carrying the cocaine to Nigeria. 

