BFN 

  [Text] Nairobi, May 2 (AFP) -- The rebel Rwanda Patriotic 
Front (RPF) said Monday [2 May] it will send a delegation to 
Arusha, Tanzania, on Tuesday to explain its stand on the Rwandan 
conflict to the Tanzanian president -- but not to meet Rwandan 
Government representatives. 
  In an interview with the British Broadcasting Corporation 
monitored here, RPF's military spokesman Emmanuel Idahiro said 
RPF could not negotiate with a "government of criminals," but 
its commanders were willing to meet government forces' 
commanders to discuss peace. 
  "We are going to Tanzania to see and give our views to the 
head of state, the views about the situation in our country now 
...we are not going to Tanzania to meet with the so-called 
government because we have told you that this government is a 
government of criminals," Idahiro said. 
  Tanzanian President Ali Hassan Mwinyi said Sunday his 
country 
would host peace talks between the RPF and the interim 
governemnt in the northern town of Arusha. 
  A United Nations spokesman in the Rwandan capital, Kigali, 
told AFP Monday that the interim governement in Rwanda will send 
a delegation composed of both civilain and military 
representatives to Arusha. 
  Idahiro said RPF had taken control of Rwanda's border with 
Tanzania but denied that the RPF had blockaded the frontier to 
prevent Rwandan refugees from fleeing into Tanzania. 
  More than 100,000 Rwandans, many of them from the minority 
Tutsi ethnic group, have been killed since the death of 
President Juvenal Habyarimana, from the majority Hutu group, in 
an April 6 rocket attack on his plane, according to aid agencies 
and human rights organisations. 

