BFN 

  [Text] In South Africa, the African National Congress 
continues its sweep in the recently held elections. The party 
has secured 65 percent votes which is 1.7 percent less than a 
two-thirds majority. The ruling National Party has polled 20.6 
percent votes, while the Zulu-dominated Inkatha Freedom Party 
has secured 8.1 percent. As the celebration party which began 
on Last Friday [29 April] still continues, the formal election 
of Dr. Nelson Mandela as the next president has been postponed 
to Monday. The postponement is due to the delay in counting of 
votes. About 100 world leaders are expected to attend the 
installation of Dr. Mandela as the first Black president of 
South Africa. The Indian delegation to the installation 
ceremony will be led by the vice president, Mr. K.R. Narayanan. 
The minister of state for external affairs, Mr. Salman 
Khurshid, spoke to our correspondent Prabhat Dabral on the 
changing scenario in South Africa. 
  [Begin Khurshid recording] I think that tremendous... 
[pauses] I think it opens up vast new field of economic activity 
for Indian entrepreneurs and Indian traders. It really 
virtually opens up the Indian Ocean. We were too far from many 
destinations because we didn't have a major trading partner on 
the tip of Africa. Now we have. If we exploit this potential, 
if we work together in partnership, a whole new opportunity 
opens up not just in Africa itself, but beyond Africa [words 
indistinct]. [end recording] 

