BFN 

<F P=106> [By Chan Wai-fong] </F>
  [Text] After more than five months in detention, mainland 
journalist Gao Yu went on trial in Beijing yesterday for 
allegedly "leaking state secrets to foreigners." Chinese 
sources said such cases usually took one or two days for a 
verdict to be given. 
  Gao, 50, was detained in October as she prepared to leave to 
take up a fellowship at the Columbia University Journalism 
School in the United States. 
  Neither the Intermediate People's Court nor the Higher 
People's Court in Beijing could be contacted yesterday. Nor was 
there any notice on Gao's trial posted outside the court 
yesterday. Gao's husband, Zhao Yuankang, would not comment and 
it is thought he did not attend yesterday. 
  It is understood that Gao was accused of having obtained a 
copy of a speech, considered to be top secret, given by the 
president and military head, Jiang Zemin, early last year. 
  For a conviction involving such a document, she could face a 
jail term of 10 years or more, sources said. It is understood 
she might also be charged with leaking other confidential 
documents to jingwai [outside the borders] organisations -- a 
reference to Hong Kong and Taiwan, rather than overseas groups 
in general. 
  Gao had been a contributor to Hong Kong publications 
including the pro-China THE MIRROR monthly. However, its 
publisher, Xu Simin, has said he had no idea whether his 
magazine articles had led to her arrest. 
  Last month, Ming Pao reporter Xi Yang was convicted and 
jailed for 12 years for "spying and stealing state financial 
secrets". 

