BFN 

<F P=106> [From 9 May P.EVALEHT, p. 3; "News Bulletin" No. 88/94] </F>
  [Text] Estonian Foreign Minister Juri Luik met Poland's 
Foreign Minister Andrzej Olechowski in Warsaw on Friday [6 May] 
while attending the Baltic Sea region parliamentary conference. 
They discussed the agenda for the meeting of foreign ministers 
of the Council of Baltic Sea States to take place in Tallinn on 
24-25 May, cooperation prospects between the Baltic and Visegrad 
states, Russian political developments and the Estonian-Russian 
relations. 
  The foreign ministers came to the conclusion that the Baltic 
states should form a common free trade area with the Central 
European countries, the Foreign Ministry announced. The Polish 
foreign minister also declared Poland's support to Estonia's 
demand that the Russian troops be withdrawn from Estonia by 31 
August 1994. 
  The Polish and Estonian foreign ministers agreed that 
negotiations concerning Polish-Estonian defence cooperation 
within the "Partnership for Peace" programme be started and a 
cooperation protocol between the foreign ministries be signed in 
the near future. 
  Juri Luik addressed the Polish Senate foreign affairs 
commission and the parliamentary conference, describing the 
activities of the Council of the Baltic Sea States during the 
last year and Estonia's idea of the future of the council. Luik 
supported the recommendation on the forming of a mechanism for 
coordinating the cooperation between the Baltic Sea States 
parliaments and the Council. 
  Luik is to attend the WEU [West European Union] 
consultations 
forum foreign and defence ministers meeting in Luxembourg today. 

