Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] Prague Feb 3 (CTK) -- Polish Minister for Economic 
Cooperation With Foreign Countries Leslaw Podkanski today said 
it was both feasible and necessary to shorten the transition 
period towards liberalisation of free trade from eight to five 
years. 
  He said this at a press conference after a meeting between 
Czech Premier Vaclav Klaus and four ministers in charge of 
trading between countries-signatories of the Central European 
Free Trade Agreement (CEFTA). 
  Klaus said that the agreement proved that the Central 
European countries were capable of free trading, which can help 
in their incorporation into European structures. 
  The ministers from Hungary, Poland, Slovakia and the Czech 
Republic -- Bela Kadar, Leslaw Podkanski, Jan Ducky and Vladimir 
Dlouhy -- agreed that even if the transition period was 
shortened and trade liberalisation achieved there would still be 
certain exceptions, which would not fall within the overall 
liberalisation. They said agriculture was one of the most 
problematic areas. 
  The ministers agreed that the CEFTA countries would 
individually seek conclusion of free trade agreements with other 
countries -- Hungary with Slovenia and Croatia, Poland with 
Lithuania and Slovenia, Slovakia and the Czech Republic with 
Turkey, Estonia and Romania. 

