Language: <F P=105> German </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] Wiesbaden (DPA) -- FRG Interior Minister Manfred 
Kanther, Christian Democratic Union [CDU], considers the new 
asylum law, which has been in effect since July 1993, as a 
"great success, in particular also a success in humaneness." At 
a CDU symposium in Wiesbaden, Kanther reported on Friday [11 
February] that a direct comparison between the two halves of 
1993 shows that the number of asylum-seekers illegally smuggled 
into Germany went down from 30,000 by about 20,000. Thus, many 
who pay large sums of money to human traffickers only to be 
deported immediately upon their arrival in Germany have been 
spared great disappointment. 
  According to the interior minister, there is a close 
connection between the crime of trafficking in people, illegal 
border-crossings, and the above-average crime rate among illegal 
immigrants. He also sees a great problem in the illegal 
employment of illegal immigrants, Kanther said. "Illegal 
employment is not a minor offense, it is a very serious crime," 
he stressed. 
  The CDU politician also opposed the view that Germany has 
become an immigration country. The demand for an immigration 
law is absurd; anyone who claims that this could regulate the 
problem of immigration is just spreading "impractical chimeras" 
that cannot be used to solve practical problems. Political 
achievements must be measured by their results, Kanther said. 

