Language: <F P=105> French </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Excerpt] The three Bosnian factions and the international 
mediators will meet in Geneva again today in order once more to 
discuss the peace plan which splits Bosnia into three 
territorial entities. Today, the foreign ministers of eight 
Muslim countries will be in Geneva to lend their support to the 
Bosnian Muslims. Yesterday, they were received by the UN 
Secretary General. The secretary general of the Islamic 
Conference Organization [Hamid al-Ghabid] spoke to our reporter 
Luc Lemmonier: 
  [Begin al-Ghabid recording] It was a very positive, very 
encouraging meeting. Our contribution was designed to bring 
about progress in the negotiations. The secretary general, as 
you know, has great responsibilities regarding the recourse to 
NATO air strikes. We have asked the secretary general to stand 
by his responsibilities. Of course, he is ready to do so 
provided he is not blocked by certain countries. 
  The Islamic Conference is willing to cooperate with the 
international community in the search for a just solution to 
this conflict; it is prepared to contribute politically, 
morally, and financially -- and militarily -- to this end. The 
Islamic countries have long been proposing the use of troops. 
We would wish to see the obstacles to this removed. [end 
recording] [passage omitted] 

