BFN 

  [Excerpt] His Majesty King Husayn today received at his 
place of residence in London U.S. Secretary of State Warren 
Christopher. During the meeting, the two sides made a 
comprehensive review of all issues of common concern, especially 
the peace process in the region and the siege imposed on the 
Port of al-'Aqabah. The U.S. secretary expressed the United 
States' positive response to Jordan's proposals of having Lloyds 
Register -- a civil and nonprofitmaking company -- carry out 
inspections on the ground at the Port of al-'Aqabah instead of 
the military inspection of ships at sea. 
  The U.S. secretary briefed His Majesty King Husayn on the 
latest developments in the Palestinian-Israeli negotiations. He 
expressed his hope that a tangible result will be achieved in 
the next few days. Christopher also hoped that during his 
upcoming tour of the region's countries, the bilateral 
negotiations will resume on all tracks in Washington next month. 
  His Majesty King Husayn and the secretary expressed the need 
to achieve tangible progress in these negotiations in order to 
reach a comprehensive, just, and lasting solution to all aspects 
of the Arab-Israeli conflict. 
  The talks dealt with all aspects of bilateral relations and 
the general situation in the Middle East. 
  His Majesty King Husayn expressed his continuous concern 
over 
the suffering of the Iraqi people and the difficult 
circumstances they are facing. [passage omitted] 

