Article   Type:CSO 

  [Editorial Report] Managua BARRICADA in Spanish of 21 
January 1994 on pages 1 and 5 reports that the National 
Directorate (DN) of the Sandinist National Liberation Front 
(FSLN) should be replaced with a "more representative 
organization," according to DN member Luis Carrion. Carrion, who 
is also coordinator of the FSLN Statutes Committee, explains 
that the FSLN must promote its program "under current 
conditions, which are not those of the 70's or the 80's...but 
those of a developing democracy." He explains that the DN should 
disappear because it belongs to a "moment in history" when "not 
one of us was elected, history put us there." The committee 
proposes to replace the DN with a "National Directive or 
Council" with approximately 25 members, including women, to be 
elected by the Sandinist Assembly. The council, in turn, will 
elect an executive committee whose term will run one year and 
which will be subordinate to the assembly. The article explains 
that the new council will be elected at the extraordinary 
congress, and the council will then elect the committee. Carrion 
says that Sandinists should no longer be categorized as 
"members" or "militants," but rather "everyone should be equal 
and have the same duties and rights." With regard to an FSLN 
presidential candidate, Carrion suggests that a candidate be 
chosen by the direct vote of all the Sandinists in the country. 

