BFN 

<F P=106> [Unattributed report: "Over 221 Kosovars Died of Contagious </F>
Epidemics Last Year" -- issued by the Democratic League of 
Kosovo"] 
  [Text] During the last year, the population of Kosova 
suffered from 33 contagious epidemics, thus leaving behind the 
death toll of 221. Compared to the data from the previous year 
(1992), the number of epidemics has doubled, today's BUJKU 
reports. 
  According to the evidence issued by the Kosovo Epidemiologic 
and Hygienic Institution, the most frequent epidemics that have 
been prevailing among the population were various types of 
diarrhea, tuberculosis, scabies, scarlet fever, enteric typhus, 
etc. 
  Children and newborns were those who were mostly hit by the 
diarrhea. Some 211 children out of 5,636 who suffered diarrhea 
died in 1993. Some [words indistinct] tuberculosis, 18 of food 
intoxication, 5 children died of measles, etc. There were over 
3,256 registered cases of scabies, mainly among the school 
children, BUJKU says. 
  The lack of due vaccination and medicines, poverty and 
malnutrition, as well as the lack of medical institutions and 
personnel have resulted in such an alarming health care and 
epidemiologic situation in Kosova. 
  Following the Serbian crack-down on Kosova in 1989, the vast 
majority of Albanian doctors, nurses, and other hospital staff 
were fired on ethnic grounds. A great number of medical centers 
and clinics in many centers of Kosova have been either closed 
down or are run by Serbs only. 
  Albanian workers who were forcefully dismissed (over 100,000 
Albanians were dismissed in 1990 only), as well as their 
children were subsequently denied insurance and health care 
protection. 

