BFN 

<F P=106> [Editorial: "Iran-Iraq Ties"] </F>
  [Text] An Iranian delegation left yesterday for Baghdad to 
prepare a visit next month by Foreign Minister 'Ali Akbar 
Velayati, the first high-ranking official to visit Iraq since 
the 1991 Iraq-Kuwait conflict. 
  Nearly six years after the bloody Iraq-Iran war which ended 
in a humiliating defeat for Saddam Husayn's forces, the two 
neighbors are yet to reach a settlement on a number of issues, 
particularly the fate of POWs and those missing in action, and 
applying U.N. resolution 598 to pay war reparations to Iran. 
  Islamic Iran has emerged as a powerful country in the 
region. 
And Iraq, despite being militarily dismantled after its invasion 
of Kuwait, and its economy left in a shambles following the U.N. 
trade embargo, has rebuilt its infrastructure at a stupendous 
pace. It is said that 90 percent of its transport and 
communication links have been restored. Iraq's starving 
children are only useful media images to buttress its campaign 
against the U.N. sanctions. Saddam Husayn stands out as a 
challenge to the West again. 
  Middle East observers say that Washington perceives Iraq, 
rather than Iran, as the main security threat in the region. 
However, given the fact that the United States is determined to 
pursue the so-called policy of 'dual containment' of both Iran 
and Iraq, improvement of bilateral ties would be of mutual 
benefit to the two neighbors. 
  Moreover, Iraq has learned its lessons well with respect to 
Iran. Baghdad knows that it can't beat Tehran. Externally, 
Baghdad is isolated. Internally, Saddam has formidable problems 
to contend with, besides a shattered economy. Some of his own 
people are rebelling against his leadership. Besides, he has 
not been able to crush the Shiite and Kurdish uprisings. Thus, 
Baghdad is aware that it is in its own interests to cooperate 
with the Iranian government rather than confront it. 
  For Iran too, it would be useful to have good relations with 
Iraq. Iraq is not just another Arab country; it has enough 
skilled and talented people. It was these same people who 
restored their country's infrastructure without any outside 
help, evoking a certain degree of admiration. 
  The two sides will have a lot of important issues to 
discuss. 
Another area of importance is trade. Once the U.N. sanctions 
are lifted, Iran can be a major supplier of goods to Iraq. 
  The current talks will, no doubt, be focussed on removing 
the 
obstacles to improving relations, rather than rapid 
normalization of ties, which can't be foreseen in the immediate 
future. 
  The onus rests on Iraq, to help clear the way for restoring 
Iran's confidence in Baghdad, for its was Saddam Husayn who was 
responsible for creating the divide between the two nations. 
  Tehran's mistrust and lack of faith in the Baghdad regime is 
not without reason. Baghdad has been supporting the outlawed 
Mojahedin-e Kahlq outfit, which is launching cross border 
attacks from inside Iraq. Extraditing its leader Mas'ud Rajavi 
will remove doubts that Baghdad is supporting the terrorist 
organization's activities, and may set the right note to tackle 
more important issues. 

