BFN 

<F P=106> [Interview with Lower Saxony's Transport Minister Peter </F>
Fischer by Guenter Heismann; place and date not given: "`There 
Will Be Problems'"] 
  [Text] [Heismann] The cabinet has decided to build the 
Transrapid magnetic levitation [railroad] system between Berlin 
and Hamburg. 
  [Fischer] It is a bad decision. The Transrapid may be a 
highly interesting piece of technology that can sell on 
international markets. This is why a pilot track has to be 
built. But I do not think that densely populated regions in 
Germany are suitable for this. This technology is meant to 
connect urban centers located far apart, with comparatively 
thinly populated areas between them. It is only in such regions 
that the fast magnetic levitation train can demonstrate its 
biggest advantage -- speed. 
  [Heismann] There were also plans for a pilot track between 
Hamburg and Hanover. 
  [Fischer] The former Lower Saxony government initiated a 
regional planning procedure in 1989 to determine the route, 
which failed. There was no administrative district, either 
Christian Democratic Union or Social Democratic Party 
controlled, that would have accepted the track. They all stood 
up in unison and asked: What would we get out of it? Nothing. 
The procedure was ended after a few weeks. 
  [Heismann] The people living near the track would have had 
only the noise, but no benefit, because the train only stops at 
the terminal points. 
  [Fischer] The Transrapid cannot be integrated into our 
country. It is a completely new system that we have to put on 
top of the existing transportation networks -- railroads and 
freeways. 
  [Heismann] The magnetic levitation train does not go into 
the city centers. 
  [Fischer] We examined this in Hanover in 1988. We would 
have had to tear down entire rows of houses. The track could 
not be built above the existing railroad track either. We would 
have had to dig a tunnel from the suburbs to the city center. 
  [Heismann] What would have been the cost for this? 
  [Fischer] The tunnel would have cost up to an additional 
billion German marks [DM]. The situation in Berlin and Hamburg 
will be similar. The DM5.6 billion in public funds could have 
been used much more sensibly; on the federal railroads for 
instance. The wheel-rail system still has a lot of potential. 
Just take the ICE high-speed train. This system gets into the 
city centers on the existing tracks. 
  [Heismann] You still consider the magnetic levitation train 
to be promising technology. But industry will need a 
functioning route to demonstrate the technology if it wants to 
sell the Transrapid. 
  [Fischer] We need a region that is suitable for this 
technology, like the Moscow-St. Petersburg route. These are two 
urban centers of some 10 million inhabitants each. There is a 
sufficient distance of over 600 kilometers between them, which 
means that the Transrapid could go at full speed for some time. 
  [Heismann] Who could pay for this? Russia does not have any 
money. 
  [Fischer] If industry is really interested in a 
demonstration track, it will have to invest. The cabinet's 
decision harms the idea of the Transrapid. There will be a 
revolt along the track. The Monday before last I talked to my 
colleague Peer Steinbrueck from Schleswig-Holstein. His 
government is against the project. And we will also vote against 
the Transrapid route between Berlin and Hamburg in the Bundesrat. 

