Language: <F P=105> Portuguese </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] More than $1 million in counterfeit bills printed in 
Colombia are being distributed nationwide. The size, color, and 
type of printing of these bills are the best ever found in 
Brazil. No fake dollars previously found in the country are so 
similar to real dollar bills. Federal Police experts are 
impressed. The 1,000 bills of $100 seized at Manaus 
International Airport even have metal protection bands. 
  Former mason Astenio Nunes de Souza and businessman Juarez 
de 
Paula Sobrinho, who live in Manaus, confessed to buying the 
counterfeit bills in Colombia to sell them in Belem, Para State; 
Rio de Janeiro; and Sao Paulo. 
  Federal Police already are convinced that the dollar bills 
are being printed in Colombia because counterfeiting is only 
considered a crime in that country when counterfeit Colombian 
money is printed. To print any other counterfeit currency is 
only a misdemeanor and the counterfeiter can, at most, be fined 
for doing it. 
  For that reason, Federal Police today sent Colombian 
authorities an official letter calling for an urgent 
investigation, particularly in Leticia, which is a town 
separated from Brazil by nothing but a street. 
  At Tabatinga, on the Brazilian side, Federal Police have 
reinforced border controls. On this side of the border, buying 
or selling counterfeit dollars can result in five years in jail. 

