Language: <F P=105> German </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] Munich (DPA) -- Christian Social Union [CSU] 
Chairman and FRG Finance Minister Theo Waigel has called for a 
basic redefinition of German foreign and security policies. At 
a CSU foreign political congress in Munich on Saturday [12 
March], Waigel said that Germany has to vacate the "box seat of 
a passive observer" in world politics and become active in 
international security policies together with its European 
neighbors. 
  An end must finally be put to the phoniness of some citizens 
who get all worked up in front of the television set every 
evening because of terrible pictures from the world and 
demonstrate against international missions of German soldiers on 
the next day. The assumption of more international 
responsibility, however, also requires Germany to remain a 
"cosmopolitan country that is friendly toward foreigners," the 
CSU chairman stressed. Humanity and tolerance are 
unrenounceable characteristics of the Christian-Occidental 
culture. 
  Waigel reaffirmed his party's claim to participation in the 
shaping of foreign policy questions. His office in the Bonn 
government with international monetary and financial policies 
provides good opportunities to influence issues because "more 
things happen during the G-7 meetings than in the traditional 
circles where the foreign politicians have their pictures taken 
and not much is achieved." 

