Language: <F P=105> Russian </F>
Article Type:CSO 

<F P=106> [Article by A.A. Chernyavskiy, candidate of technical </F>
sciences, and A.G. Manuylenko, Yu.D. Kapustin, and M.A. 
Kovalenko, engineers, Rostov Oblast Institute for the Design and 
Planning of Electrical Equipment for Heat Engineering 
Installations [Teploelektroproyekt]; UDC 621.472] 
  [Abstract] The Russian state scientific-technical program 
``Ecologically Pure Power Generation'' calls for the development 
of a plan to erect an experimental solar electric power plant in 
Kislovodsk. The Rostov Teploelektroproyekt has been named 
general designer of the new solar electric power plant, and the 
Power Engineering Institute imeni G.M. Krzhizhanovskiy has been 
put in charge of creating it. The planned 1.5-MW-capacity 
modular solar electric power plant will be used to partially 
cover the electricity and heat demand of users in the plant's 
vicinity. The plant will consist of two independent parts: The 
first will convert solar radiation into electricity by using 
solar batteries based on silicon single crystals and 
polycrystals, and the second part (the thermodynamic part) will 
use Stirling motor-generators (i.e., electrical generators 
connected to a Stirling motor that is excited by solar 
radiation) as converters. The new solar electric power plant 
includes the following components: four fields of solar 
photoeletric modules; two fields of solar modules with Stirling 
motor-generators; a field of solar water-heating modules; three 
inverter substations; and control, regulation, protection, and 
automation systems. The station's circuit includes three 
independent solar power units that are connected through 
transformers to a common system of station generator buses. 
Together, the solar modules' design peak capacity is 1,907 kWe. 
The new solar electric power plant's basic technical-economic 
indicators are as follows: peak intensity of solar radiation 
flux, 0.9 kW/m[.sup]2[/]; number of hours of sunshine 
annually, 2,147; total yearly solar radiation, 1,345 
kWh/m[.sup]2[/]; peak electrical capacity, 1.6 MWh; peak 
thermal capacity, 10.5 MW; yearly output of power to consumers, 
1,560 MWh of electricity and 46,000 GJ of heat; average thermal 
efficiency of the solar modules, 57 percent; total area occupied 
by the fields of solar modules, 10.7 hectares; area of the solar 
modules' active receiving surface, 35,280 m[.sup]2[/]; 
specific capital investments per unit power, 6,770 rubles/kW for 
electricity and 5,000 for heat; cost of producing electricity, 
34.8 kopecks/kWh; cost of producing heat, 76.5 rubles/GJ; and 
number of servicing personnel required, 64. The new solar 
electric power plant has a design service life of 30 years, and 
the electricity and heat produced by it should reduce wastes 
released into the environment by the following amounts: 7,000 
tons of ash; 18,000 tons of carbon oxides; 1,400 tons of 
nitrogen; and 3,800 tons of sulfur. The new solar electric power 
plant should also reduce heat emissions by 7 x 10[.sup]8[/] J 
and should conserve the 12,000 tons of atmospheric oxygen 
conventionally required to burn fossil fuel in boiler furnaces. 
The new Kislovodsk solar electric power plant is slated to be 
completed in 1996. Figure 1, table 1; references 8: 2 Russian, 6 
Western. 


