BFN 

  [Text] Geneva, June 24 (AFP) -- The office of the UN High 
Commissioner for Refugees [UNHCR] said Friday [24 June] it was 
expecting hundreds of thousands of Rwandans to flood into 
neighbouring countries in a new flight out of the war-torn 
country. 
  Meanwhile, the UN Childrens' Fund (UNICEF) said that 14 
vehicles had reached the Rwandan capital Kigali on Thursday to 
distribute food in refugee centres. 
  "We are expecting between 250,000 and 500,000 new refugees 
because we are getting reports inside Rwanda about mass 
movements of people," said UNHCR spokeswoman Sylvana Foa. 
  She said the UNHCR welcomed the UN-mandated French military 
intervention in the central African nation, launched Thursday, 
"if it contributes to stop the atrocities." 
  But, she said, "we have to wait and see what is going to 
happen with the humanitarian operations. Every time there is a 
military operation of this kind, we have to look at security 
implications for humanitarian operations." 
  The UNHCR's mandate only allows it to look after refugees 
who 
have fled their own countries and so it is not present inside 
Rwanda, unlike, for example, the International Committee of the 
Red Cross (ICRC). 
  The UNHCR spokeswoman however said "we are looking again at 
the idea of cross-border operations" to send food into Rwanda 
from neighbouring Burundi and Zaire. 
  "Because people want to get out, but do not seem to be able 
to, they actually get killed. The border is very dangerous," 
she said. 
  There are 514,000 Rwandans currently registered in refugee 
camps set up in Tanzania, Zaire, Burundi and Uganda, said Foa. 
  The French expeditionary force, which is to have a full 
strength of 2,500, is to set up safe areas for minority Tutsi 
people who are stranded inside western Rwandan territoy held by 
forces of the majority Hutu government. 
  Up to half a million people have been killed since Rwanda 
slipped back into civil war in early April. 

