Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:BFN 

<F P=106> [Report by Muna Qasim: "The Monthly Report for February </F>
Issued by the Cabinet's Information and Decision Support Center 
Paints a Vivid Picture of the Performance of the Egyptian 
Economy in 1993"] 
  [Text] The February issue of the Egyptian Monthly Bulletin, 
a monthly survey of major economic indicators published by the 
Cabinet's Information and Decision Support Centre (IDSC) 
summarised the performance of the economy. Egypt's economic 
performance in 1993 reflects the positive results of two years 
of ambitious economic reform, during which the national economy 
faced and overcame many of the challenges which arose in 1991 
and 1992. 
  One of the most notable features of 1993 is the decline of 
annual inflation rates. According to the IDSC report, the 
annual average rate of inflation fell from 13.6 per cent in 
December 1992 to 12.1 per cent in December 1993. These figures 
are based on the consumer goods index of 1992, when the annual 
inflation rate reached 9.3 per cent, compared to 20.3 per cent 
in the previous year. 
  This is attributable to the declining price indices of a 
number of groups of consumer goods with the exception of rents, 
fuel, sports facilities, education and cultural activities. 
  As part of the economic reform plan, which depends on market 
mechanisms to achieve economic balance, the pricing structure 
continued to be adjusted during 1992 and 1993 to reflect the 
real cost of services and commodities. Last year, measures were 
applied to rid the state budget of the burden of subsidies and 
cut the budget deficit. The application of the sales tax was 
also expanded in scope. The fall of the annual inflation rate 
to 12.1 per cent in December 1993, however, resulted from the 
decline in the wholesale index, especially in commodity groups 
such as foodstuffs, tobacco, and clothing which has offset the 
effect of increases in the prices of oil and fuel. 
  Monetary policies applied since 1991 have attained two major 
goals: foreign exchange rates have been stabilised and interest 
rates have gradually been cut. The Central Bank of Egypt (CBE) 
in 1993 continued its policy of holding liquidity in check and 
stabilising exchange rates, which coincided with the downward 
trend of interest rates on savings in local currency. Exchange 
rates maintained a relative stability during 1993, with the CBE 
interfering to buy foreign currencies. The US dollar rate 
increased from PT [piasters] 333.75 in January 1993 to 336.95 in 
December 1993. During the course of the year, the Egyptian 
pound declined by only one per cent against the dollar which 
suggests that monetary policies designed to eliminate the 
dollarisation of the economy were successful. 
  Parallels can also be drawn with the stability of the 
Egyptian pound against the pound sterling, the German mark, the 
French franc, the yen and the ECU. The exchange rate of the 
Egyptian pound against these currencies fluctuated between 1 and 
1.5 per cent, which affirms the stability of the foreign rates. 
  In September, 1993 the number of licensed foreign exchange 
companies reached 72, with 57 branches and a total capital of LE 
[Egyptian pounds] 129.385 million. These companies have 
accounted for $700 million in net foreign currency revenues. 
Meanwhile, the CBE stuck to its policy of intervention, to 
maintain the stability of foreign exchange rates and enhance its 
foreign currency reserves. Until June 1993 the CBE purchased 
around $7.1 billion, of which it used $1.9 billion, bringing net 
purchases to $5.2 billion. 
  In 1993, monetary policies continued to achieve three main 
goals: these were to hold the expansion of liquidity in check, 
to stabilise the rate of exchange of the US dollar and to cut 
interest rates on savings held in Egyptian pounds, in order to 
encourage investment and to push forward economic development. 
  To achieve these goals, the CBE resorted to several 
measures. 
These included the cancellation of credit ceilings on loans to 
the private sector as of October 1992 and on loans to the public 
sector as of July 1993. There was also a trend towards 
decreasing the issue of new treasury bills, to strike a balance 
between the need to curb the state budget deficit and to keep 
liquidity in the national economy at a suitable level. 
  The IDSC figures suggest a link between declining average 
returns on treasury bills and the downward trend in interest 
rates on bank deposits in the period January 1993 to January 
1994. Interest rates on Treasury bills reached 16.2 per cent in 
January 1993, as opposed to a discount rate of 18.55 per cent. 
By December 1993 the interest rates on Treasury Bonds reached 
14.45 per cent. The significant improvement in the budget 
deficit, which went down to 3.6 in 1993, has led to a decrease 
in the issuance of new bills. As a part of the liberalisation 
of banking services, the minimum interest rate of 12 per cent on 
three-month deposits made in Egyptian pounds was cancelled in 
1993. Taking into consideration the relationship between 
interest rates on short-term bank deposits and those on 
short-term treasury bills, interest rates on bank deposits have 
markedly decreased, to 15.25 per cent in December 1993. 
Accordingly, the CBE's lending and discount rates went down to 
16.58 per cent by the end of 1993 and then dropped further, to 
16.25 per cent, at the beginning of 1994. Thus, the CBE has 
managed to achieve its monetary and credit policies, which 
implies that the economic reform plan has succeeded in making a 
positive impact on the performance of the banking system. 
  As far as Egypt's economic relations with foreign countries 
are concerned, the balance of payments achieved a surplus in 
1993 due to the surplus of the current accounts balance achieved 
over the past three years. However, the aggregate surplus was 
less than that achieved in the previous year, due to the growing 
deficit in the trade balance and the declining surplus of the 
services balance. 
  According to the statistics published by IDSC, the balance 
of 
trade deficit increased by $7.315 billion in 1993, compared with 
$6.421 billion in 1992. This increase is attributable to the 
decline in exports to $3.4 billion; at around $216.2 million 
less than the previous year, this represents a decrease of some 
0.6 per cent. This is the result of exports to Russia and the 
other countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States being 
cut down by $302.1 million. The decline in exports was felt 
mainly in chemical products, textiles and agricultural products, 
while exports of crude oil and oil products increased. 
  Egypt's imports, meanwhile, increased by $677.7 million or 
around 6.7 per cent, to reach $10.7 billion. According to some 
monthly statistics revealed by the IDSC, the balance of payments 
deficit reached $575.93 million in November 1992, an increase of 
around 107.8 per cent over the base year 1990. 
  In October 1993, the deficit reached $470.39 million, an 
87.46 per cent increase over the base year, and rose to $516.28 
million in November 1993, an increase of around 95.99 per cent 
over the base year. These figures suggest that the deficit 
rates are relatively the same, as a result of the exports 
decline already mentioned. 
  The fiscal year 1992-93 is the first year of the third 
five-year socio-economic development plan, which runs from 
1992/93 to 1996/97. This third five-year plan focuses on 
developing the commodity sectors at rates of growth above the 
rate of population growth, with the aim of improving living 
standards, as well as striking a balance between the growth of 
expenditure and production to control prices. In addition to 
this, the five-year plan aims to promote the tourism industry as 
a renewable source of foreign currency. 
  The figures released by the IDSC indicate that the Gross 
Domestic Product (GDP), calculated at 1987 prices, increased by 
2.8 per cent in 1992 as against 2.3 per cent in 1991 and 2.5 per 
cent in 1990. 
  According to the Central Agency for Public Mobilisation and 
Statistics, population growth decreased to 2.1 per cent in 
1992/93, compared to 2.3 per cent in the previous fiscal year. 
This is an encouraging sign, since the growth of GDP, at 2.8 
per cent, exceeded population growth. However, more population 
control is needed at the same time as GDP increases, to minimise 
the burdens of overpopulation on development and the labour 
market. 
  The tourism industry is considered an important source for 
foreign currency, but IDSC statistics reveal two important 
points. The first is that the number of nights spent by tourists 
in Egypt has declined from 21,318,000 in January 1992 to 
15,089,000 in January 1993; the second is that tourism revenues 
have declined from $2,138 million between January and November 
1992 to around $1,290 million during the same period in 1993. 
The same statistics show that the number of tourists went down 
from 200,000 in December, 1992 to 172,000 in December 1993; the 
number of nights spent by tourists in Egypt decreased from 
1,082,000 in December 1992 to 912,000 in December 1993. The 
decline took place despite efforts to promote Egypt's tourism 
industry to offset the negative effects of terrorist acts. 

