Language: <F P=105> French </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] Chadian President Idriss Deby, who is on a private 
visit to France, wanted to see President Mitterrand about the 
new economic situation created by the devaluation of the CFA 
franc. He is asking for extra help from Paris in paying some of 
the salary arrears of his civil servants. Idriss Deby was 
received at the Elysee yesterday evening. Among other subjects 
he raised with the French head of state was the Aouzou Strip, 
which is still occupied by the Libyans. 
  Idriss Deby claims to be conciliatory about this matter, at 
least for the moment, as he said when he left the Elysee: 
  [Begin Deby recording] We do not feel that there is any 
threat from Libya, even if we are of course worried. We have 
not heard any very clear reaction about any threat from Libya 
with regard to the decisions of the International Court of 
Justice. What is certain is that Libya agreed by common 
consent, as we did, to sign the Algiers framework agreement of 
31 August 1989, and we also submitted the case by common consent 
to the International Court of Justice. On behalf of Chad I am 
glad that right was found to be on our side. This is what is 
important for us: that the national and international public 
knows today that the Aouzou Strip belongs to Chad. Libya 
committed itself, and we are relying on its good faith and on 
its written commitments. [end recording] 

