Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:BFN 

<F P=106> [Report by John Kohut in Beijing] </F>
  [Text] About 100 million children in hundreds of thousands 
of villages and towns across China will be inoculated against 
polio beginning on Sunday in the biggest mass immunization 
programme the world has ever seen. The two-day immunization 
blitz, which will be repeated on January 5 and 6, is part of an 
effort by the World Health Organisation (WHO) and the Chinese 
Government to eradicate the polio virus from China by 1995. 
  The strategy behind the mass immunization campaign was "to 
just smother the whole population with oral polio vaccine, and 
hopefully wipe out the dangerous virus," said Dr Kingsley Gee, 
the WHO representative in China. WHO hopes to wipe out the 
polio virus worldwide by the year 2000, and believes China is 
well within reach of eradicating it within two years. "If China 
does it, we hope it will set a faster pace in the rest of the 
world," Dr Gee said. 
  So far this year, China has reported 430 incidents of polio. 
However, without a mass immunization programme, the country is 
still vulnerable to the possibility of another upswing in polio 
cases. About two million doctors, health workers and support 
staff will be involved in the immunization drive, aimed at 
inoculating all children under the age of four. 
  The serum has cost U.S.$7.3 million (H.K.$56.37 million), 
half of which was paid for by China and the remainder of the 
bill being paid by outside donors. This round of immunization 
should wipe out the virus in most provinces, but a repeat 
programme would probably be needed next year in Guangdong, 
Guangxi, Guizhou and Hainan, Dr Gee said. 

