BFN 

<F P=106> [Interview with Republikaner leader Franz Schoenhuber by </F>
Eusebio Val in Bonn; date not given: "Traditional Parties Stamp 
on Any Kind of German National Pride"] 
  [Text] Republikaner leader Franz Schoenhuber, 
speaking in an interview with LA VANGUARDIA, analyzed the 
problem of racism in Germany and the position of his party 
before the European elections. The Republikaner are the main 
force on the extreme right of German politics. 
  [Val] There are almost daily attacks against foreign 
residences in Germany. What do you feel about this phenomenon? 
  [Schoenhuber] They are criminal acts. 
  [Val] Some politicians and elements of the media say that 
your party is intellectually responsible for these actions. 
  [Schoenhuber] They are fools. 
  [Val] What are the causes of the violence? 
  [Schoenhuber] They are social in nature. There are social 
tensions in Germany that have been brought about by the 
traditional parties. 
  [Val] What have these parties done? 
  [Schoenhuber] Everything. 
  [Val] Can you be a little more specific? 
  [Schoenhuber] I have already talked about social tensions. 
The traditional parties reacted to this problem too late and 
then they stamped on German national pride. That is what caused 
the reaction. 
  [Val] Recently, it has been alleged that maybe some members 
of your party participated in attacks on foreigners. 
  [Schoenhuber] We are not involved. I do not like to talk 
about "maybe's." There must be specific accusations. If they 
are borne out, then we will expel those involved. 
  [Val] The main theme of your electoral program for the 
European elections is your opposition to the Maastricht Treaty. 
Why? 
  [Schoenhuber] Because I agree with de Gaulle's principle and 
uphold the Europe of nations. The Maastricht Treaty grants too 
many powers. We believe in the principle of subsidiarity. The 
most important things must be decided in each country. We want 
to maintain our German identity. We want to remain German -- 
European and German. 
  [Val] What role will a united Germany play at the end of the 
20th century? 
  [Schoenhuber] We must build a bridge between East and West, 
between the Western powers and the states of the East. 
  [Val] Do you believe the existing German borders to be 
fixed? 
  [Schoenhuber] Pacts and treaties must be fulfilled. However, 
everywhere around the world there exists the right to 
self-determination, and that includes for the German people. 
  [Val] What does that mean? 
  [Schoenhuber] It means that if the Basques say that they 
want 
to be Basques, or the Corsicans say that they want to be 
Corsican, so can the people of Silesia or anywhere else say that 
they want to be German. I am not saying that that is what I 
want, you understand. Nonetheless, referendums are the same 
everywhere in the world. 
  [Val] Why do you not form a united front with the other 
parties of the right, like the Union of the German People (DVU)? 
  [Schoenhuber] Because we think we are the only democratic 
and 
legitimate party on the Right. 
  [Val] Do you think you have been badly treated by the press? 
  [Schoenhuber] Yes, of course. The press is afraid. The 
situation here is incomparable. The past is a great weight 
around Germany's neck. The press reflects this fear. 
  [Val] How do you see your party faring in the European 
elections and future elections? 
  [Schoenhuber] Fine, because opinion polls do not reflect 
what 
people really think. People do not want to risk saying what 
they really think, but they will vote for what they think. 
  [Val] Returning to the subject of foreigners, do you think 
that Germany is now being transformed into a country of 
immigration, a multicultural society? Is that what the future 
holds? 
  [Schoenhuber] I hope not. 
  [Val] Why? 
  [Schoenhuber] Because I think each country must retain its 
own identity. We have nothing against foreigners, but we do not 
want, for example, the extreme situation whereby there are more 
foreigners living in a city than Germans. That is not a good 
thing. It will generate tension. 
  [Val] So what should the government's policy be with regard 
to foreigners? 
  [Schoenhuber] Steps have already been taken to change the 
asylum law. They stole that from our program. 
  [Val] What other measures do you propose? 
  [Schoenhuber] We are against giving foreigners the right to 
vote. Only those people holding a German passport should have 
the right to vote, whether they are black, yellow, or white. We 
are also opposed to dual citizenship. 

