Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] Johannesburg Jan 11 SAPA -- The African National 
Congress [ANC] was solely responsible for the tragic shootings 
in Katlehong on the East Rand on Sunday in which a press 
photographer was killed and two journalists were injured, 
Inkatha Freedom Party [IFP] Transvaal leader Themba Khoza said 
in Johannesburg on Tuesday. 
  He said the ANC was prepared to risk lives for political 
mileage. The ANC had not organised the visit properly. It 
should have alerted peace monitors, the IFP or the police of the 
visit to protect its officials and the media, Mr Khoza said. 
"If the IFP had known of the visit we would gladly have worked 
with the ANC to protect its safety. I personally would have 
stood as a barrier between the ANC delegation and hostel 
dwellers," Mr Khoza said at a press conference. 
  "Mazibuko hostel has a strong Inkatha population and it is a 
fact that if outsiders enter no-go areas, there could be 
trouble." Hostel dwellers, who had not been told of the visit, 
might have felt threatened by the many heavily-armed ANC men 
marching towards the hostel. "They could have thought they were 
under attack," he said. 
  It was not important who fired the first shot because the 
"civil war" in Katlehong had been going on for several years. 
But the man who shot and killed photographer Abdul Shariff 
should be brought to justice, he said. 
  The IFP would do everything it could to help police in their 
investigations. "I do not believe the press are being targeted 
by any group. Mr Shariff was unfortunately caught in the 
cross-fire between warring parties," Mr Khoza said. 
  "Police need to continue raids on the hostels and residents' 
homes to confiscate weapons. It is a very difficult task but 
people must be disarmed. Guns mean violence." 

