BFN 

  [Text] Bratislava, May 26 (CTK) -- Czech President Vaclav 
Havel believes the Slovak Government has the opportunity to 
bring Czech-Slovak relations up to a comfortable level, Slovak 
Premier Jozef Moravcik told journalists today after meeting 
Havel. 
  Havel and Moravcik have reviewed foreign policy questions, 
Moravcik said, adding he then told Havel that the old trading 
account with the Czech Republic (from before the currency split 
in March 1993) was causing Slovakia problems. 
  "Kasarna, the contested village of recreation cottages owned 
by Czechs, was only briefly mentioned," Moravcik said, adding 
that it is an open question and likely to remain one for some 
time. 
  The Czech-Slovak border commission suggested, on the basis 
of 
prevailing local opinion, that Kasarna be included in the Czech 
Republic in return for a similar area elsewhere along the 
border. The only road to Kasarna leads from the Czech Republic. 
Slovakia wants to keep Kasarna. 
  Moravcik said there was "not yet any reason" for a meeting 
with his Czech counterpart Vaclav Klaus. A meeting of premiers 
has been thought necessary for the settling of the Kasarna 
issue. The two countries would gradually deal with the open 
issues, which are mainly "technical," Moravcik said he told 
Havel. Some of them can be resolved before the elections, 
others afterwards, Moravcik said. 
  Havel last met Slovak Premier in March 1993 during what was 
his first trip abroad as President of the Czech Republic. 
Vladimir Meciar then held the post. 

