BFN 

  [Text] Vientiane, June 25 (KPL) -- A memorandum on the 
survey of the construction of the Nam Khan II hydropower project 
in Luang Prabang Province was signed here yesterday between the 
Lao Government and the Hydro Quebec International of Canada, 
reports `VIENTIANE MAI' daily newspaper today. 
  According to the memorandum, the Lao government authorizes 
the Canadian company to do the survey, and the feasibility study 
to be started within eight months after the signing of the 
memorandum. This document will be further presented to the Lao 
government for approval, says `VIENTIANE MAI'. 
  The capacity of the Nam Khan II hydropower station is 
estimated at 145 MW. Construction is to take three years and to 
cost U.S. dollars 200 million, which will be covered by the 
Canadian company. The investor will operate of this hydro-power 
station for 25 years and then transfer it to the Lao government, 
writes the newspaper. 
  If it was built as intended, the Nam Khan II power station 
will be the second in the province after the Nam Dong built 
several decades ago. 
  The Hydro Quebec International has operated in Laos for five 
years. It focusses on investment in small scale electricity 
projects, the report goes on. 
  Nam Khan is a tributary of the Mekong river in the northern 
province of Luang Prabang. 
  The signatories were Mr. Leuan Sombounkhan, vice-chairman of 
the Committee for Planning and Cooperation, and Mr. Simon 
Ouimet, representative of the Hydro Quebec International. 

