Language: <F P=105> Spanish </F>
Article Type:BFN 

<F P=106> [From the "National Newscast"] </F>
  [Text] The International Drugs Control Board [Junta 
Internacional de Fiscalizacion de Drogas] has charged drug 
traffickers are continuously infiltrating the Colombian 
Government and Congress. 
  The board has information about visits attorneys of the Cali 
Cartel have made to Congress during discussions of the Penal 
Procedures Code and about acts of intimidation by other cartels 
when the Geneva Convention on drug trafficking was being 
discussed. 
  [Begin Rene Saa Vidal, Drugs Control Board spokesman, 
recording] One main concern was the fact Congress did not 
approve the Vienna Convention, which had been presented for 
approval in 1992, due to pressure exerted on the extradition 
issue, especially. 
  The investigations that Congress made years ago, as well as 
recently, about how certain congressmen are directly involved 
with drug traffickers have led the board to affirm there is a 
continuous concern over the fact that drug traffickers are 
trying to exert influence in parliament. [end recording] 
  The board has also denounced the vast corruptive clout drug 
traffickers have in countries where there are drug-trafficking 
activities. Concerning Colombia, the board has found evidence 
that certain cartel men have infiltrated the Attorney General's 
Office. 
  The board has also stated in Colombia little or nothing has 
been done to combat drug trafficking. 

