BFN 

  [Text] Athens, April 1, IRNA -- The Islamic Salvation Front 
(FIS) said the military-backed regime in Algeria has intensified 
its terror campaign against the people and warned that the 
country is slipping towards a civil war. 
  A FIS statement, faxed to IRNA from Germany Friday, referred 
to the recent announcement by Algerian authorities to form armed 
militias to fight Islamic groups and said the regime "is now 
taking refuge in widespread terrorist and illegal acts." 
  The statement noted that youth between 14 to 25 years of age 
were being killed and their bodies thrown on the streets "in 
order to create fear among the people so that they may accept 
the rule of the minority." 
  257 civilians were murdered by the regime only in three 
Algerian cities in the last few days, said FIS, also blaming the 
regime for attacks against women. 
  "Our sister believers should know that all calls for attacks 
against women stem from this deviated group which is thirsty for 
the blood of the innocent men and women," said the statement in 
Arabic. 
  Unidentified gunmen shot and killed two schoolgirls near 
Algiers Tuesday. FIS said the aim of the attacks "is to lead 
the country into a civil war as soon as possible," and called on 
all Algerians regardless of their views and positions to make a 
united stand and foil the plots of the "enemies of Islam both 
inside and outside Algeria." 
  The Algerian regime cancelled elections, banned FIS and 
imprisoned its leaders after its sweeping victory in general 
elections in the country two years ago. 
  FIS and other Islamic groups, which enjoy popular support, 
are struggling to create an Islamic state in Algeria. 

