BFN 

  [Text] Jeddah, 25 Apr -- The foreign ministers of the 
member states in the liaison team of the Islamic Conference 
Organization [ICO] concerned with following up the situation in 
Bosnia-Herzegovina is to hold a meeting on 27 April at the UN 
headquarters in New York. 
  A statement issued by the ICO general secretariat today says 
that the meeting will discuss the upcoming steps to be taken at 
the international level to halt the savage Serbian aggression 
against the Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina. 
  The statement says that ICO Secretary General Dr. Hamid 
al-Ghabid has called for this ministerial meeting of the liaison 
committee to be held as a result of the savage Serbian attack on 
the town of Gorazde, which the UN has declared a safe area. 
  The statement says that Dr. al-Ghabid will go to New York 
later tonight to meet UN Secretary general Butrus-Ghali and 
members of the Security Council, in addition to participating in 
the ministerial meeting of the liaison team. 
  The statement expresses the the ICO's anxiety as a result of 
the savage crimes which Bosnian forces are committing, even 
after they expressed their compliance with the NATO ultimatum. 
  The statement denounces the scorched earth policy being 
pursued by the Serbs, which can be counted as another example of 
their bare-faced disregard for all legal standards and moral 
principles, and calls for clear and unambiguous condemnation on 
the part of the international community. 
  It is to be recalled that the liaison team is made up of the 
permanent UN representatives of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, 
Egypt, Senegal, Tunisia, Malaysia, Turkey, and Iran. 

