Language: <F P=105> German </F>
Article Type:BFN 

<F P=106> [Unattributed report: "Continuing Support for Germans"] </F>
  [Text] Frankfurt/Main, 21 Mar -- The Federal Government 
will continue to support the Germans in Romania and help them, 
particularly in the social, cultural, and agricultural spheres. 
This was announced by Mr. Waffenschmidt (Christian Democratic 
Union), the Federal Government's resettlers' commissioner, on 
Monday [21 March] after a talk with Bishop Christoph Klein, head 
of the Evangelical Church in Transylvania. In 1994, too, Bonn 
keeps financial aid available to support the Romanian Germans. 
For this year and for the past year 28 million German marks has 
been allocated for this purpose from the FRG Interior Ministry 
budget. This year a center for the elderly will be completed in 
Hermannstadt, Transylvania, and a cultural center in Temeschburg 
(Temesvar) in the Banat region. Waffenschmidt, parliamentary 
state secretary to the Interior Ministry, wants to visit the 
ethnic Germans in Romania in May. He added that a considerable 
minority of the Romanian Germans want to stay in their homeland. 
The approximately 20,000 applications for resettlement that the 
Federal Administrative Office still has are to be speedily 
processed within the framework of the regulations of the Law on 
Compensation for War-Induced Losses, Waffenschmidt concluded. 

