BFN 

  [Text] Nelson Mandela will officially be sworn in as South 
African president tomorrow. A number of international figures 
are in Cape Town [as heard] to attend the swearing in of South 
Africa's first black president. Angolan President Jose Eduardo 
dos Santos is one such figure, and he has already arrived in 
South Africa for that purpose. As he was about to leave the 
Angolan capital today, the Angolan head of state noted that 
Mandela's victory was a victory for Africa. 
  [Begin dos Santos recording] It is a great victory for the 
people of South Africa, the African National Congress, and 
President Nelson Mandela in particular. However, it is also a 
victory for the whole of Africa. The OAU and all African 
political forces have now implemented their basic program: We 
have fully liberated Africa. Now, we are involved in a new 
stage, that of reconstruction and development. [end recording] 
  When he arrived in South Africa, President dos Santos noted 
that Angola had shown solidarity with the Angolan people. 
  [Begin dos Santos recording] We regard these as historic 
times. This is a new and democratic South Africa, and we are 
happy that we helped in some way to ensure that this day would 
come sooner, rather than later, so that the South African 
people's suffering would be over. Now, we think that the South 
African people must also show solidarity with the Angolan 
people. We made sacrifices and we fought in the same trenches 
to achieve our common goals. Angola is still at war, though, so 
we hope that South Africa will now also contribute in whatever 
way it can to ensure that the suffering of the Angolan people 
will be over soon. [end recording] 

