Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] Nairobi, 16 March (AFP) -- Two Kenyan journalists 
were arrested by security forces after publication here on 
Wednesday [16 March] of a report saying nine people had died and 
hundreds had been displaced in a new flare-up of ethnic fighting 
in the country's Rift Valley Province. 
  The journalists -- Ngumo wa Kuria and Peter Makori -- both 
working for the Lonrho-owned STANDARD newspapers, were expected 
to appear in court in the Rift Valley town of Nakuru on 
Thursday, probably on charges of "false reporting to create 
alarm". 
  Ngumo wa Kuria was picked up in Nakuru, while Makori was 
picked up from the western Kenyan town of Kisii and brought to 
Nakuru to face charges for the report, published on Wednesday by 
THE STANDARD, but which police authorities have strongly denied. 
  The report quoted 200 ethnic Kisiis who arrived back home on 
Monday night and told how an unidentified group terrorised 
people last Friday in Mau Summit of Molo area, killing some 
people and forcing the rest out of their homes. The area was 
badly affected at the height of ethnic violence which left more 
than 1,000 people dead and tens of thousands more displaced last 
year, until the government stepped in and declared it a security 
zone in an effort to end the fighting between the majority 
Kikuyu and President Daniel arap Moi's Kalenjin tribesmen. 

