BFN 

  [Text] His Excellency [H.E.] Senator Gareth Evans said in 
a news conference at the Information Ministry yesterday that 
Australia will provide aid worth 92 million Australian dollars 
to the Kingdom of Cambodia for a period of four years, from 
1994-95 to 1997-98. According to this pledge, Australian aid 
will nearly double the amount of aid pledged by Australia for 
Cambodia at the international conference on Cambodia's 
rehabilitation held in March 1992 [as heard] in Tokyo, Japan. 
  H.E. Gareth Evans affirmed that this program enables 
Australia and Cambodia to solve urgent needs to develop 
important sectors in Cambodia, including infrastructure in which 
Australia will help build bridges to improve roads. As for mine 
clearing, Australia will continue to assist the Cambodian Mine 
Action Center in removing the estimated more than 10 million 
remaining mines in Cambodia. In the human rights sector, 
Australia will continue to assist the UN Human Rights Center in 
the Kingdom of Cambodia. In the field of education, Australia 
has paid attention to teaching the English language, including 
modern English teaching programs which will be broadcast over 
Australian international television and through the use of 
videotapes, tape recorders, and printing. In the public health 
sector Australia will make great efforts to completely eradicate 
polio and to control malaria. 

