Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] Bratislava Feb 2 (CTK) -- Beginning next week, the 
Slovak market is to be protected from imports, including those 
from the Czech Republic, Slovak Premier Vladimir Meciar said at 
a meeting of his Movement For a Democratic Slovakia (HZDS) today 
in connection with Slovakia's clearing accounts deficit. 
  Meciar did not give any details about the planned protective 
measures, saying only that he would discuss the matter with 
economics ministers on Saturday [5 February]. 
  Meciar said that the Czech Government had lowered the 
value-added tax (VAT) on some goods in order to erase the 
difference between the values of the Czech and Slovak crowns, 
which was hurting Czech exports. 
  On another topic, Meciar said that the holding of Slovak 
gold 
by the Czech Republic was a violation of international 
agreements. Slovakia is taking the necessary steps to protect 
its interests, he said. He also expressed the suspicion that 
the Czech Republic intends to return the ten tonnes of gold in 
the form of gold bars, and not, for instance, objects of art 
with a higher value. "Bars have one value and gold statuary has 
another," he stated. 
  At the meeting, Meciar also said that the HZDS would submit 
to parliament a bill on taking away mandates from deputies who 
leave the party they were elected to represent while still 
serving their term. If parliament does not pass the bill, he 
said, the HZDS is determined to put it to referendum. 

