Language: <F P=105> German </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] The Foreign Ministry has harshly criticized 
comments by Social Democratic Party of Germany [SPD] Chairman 
Scharping on the Kurdish issue. State Minister Schaefer stated 
in Bonn at noon today that Scharping has made a bad faux pas. 
The minister-president from Mainz has obviously overlooked the 
fact that the Workers Party of Kurdistan, PKK, has been 
responsible for terrorism in Turkey and abroad for years. 
  In an interview with NORDWEST-ZEITUNG, which is published in 
Oldenburg, the SPD chairman had advocated the view that the 
European Union and NATO have watched the genocide of the Kurds, 
while doing practically nothing so far. The Federal Government 
must exert political pressure on the developments in Turkey and 
bring about a restriction of arms exports. At the same time, 
Scharping condemned the violent riots by Kurds in Germany. 
  Heiner Geissler, deputy chairman of the Christian Democratic 
Union [CDU]/Christian Social Union [CSU] Bundestag group, has 
called on the European Union to negotiate with Turkey on an 
autonomy statute for the Kurds. Speaking to SUEDDEUTSCHE 
ZEITUNG, Geissler said that, since they are particularly 
affected, the Germans must seize a corresponding initiative in 
the European Union. At the same time, the CDU/CSU politician 
came out against deporting Kurds en masse to Turkey. In his 
view, this would not lead to a calming down of the domestic 
climate, but rather to further escalation. 

