BFN 

<F P=106> [Report by Randah Habib from Amman] </F>
  [Text] Our radio has learned from reliable sources that 
Jordan, Syria, and Lebanon are making studies in order to 
achieve tripartite economic integration, similar to the Arab 
Cooperation Council. The step is meant to counter the effects 
of the Palestinian-Israeli agreement on the economies of these 
countries. 
  An official Jordanian source has asserted that Jordan 
welcomes other Arab parties to join this integration, especially 
the PLO, if it chooses to link the economy of the autonomous 
area with the Arab states instead of Israel. 
  The initial reaction of the Palestinians to this plan is one 
of PLO concern to maintain and develop good economic ties with 
Jordan. However, a Palestinian source said what is proposed now 
is a three-way Jordanian-Syrian-Lebanese coordination. He 
feared that the Palestinians could be pushed further into the 
lap of Israel. 
  The plan of economic integration will be at the heart of the 
Jordanian-Syrian talks at the level of prime ministers next 
Monday in Amman. This issue was also raised on the bilateral 
level between Jordan and Lebanon during the visit of Lebanese 
Foreign Minister Faris Buwayz to Amman this week. 
  On another level, a summit meeting will be held between 
Jordan's King Husayn and U.S. President Bill Clinton in 
Washington in mid-June to discuss the developments in the peace 
process. Also, the tripartite Jordanian-U.S.-Israeli committee 
that was formed nine months ago will meet next Monday in 
Washington to discuss projects in the Jordan Valley. 
  Amman insists on resolving the border question with Israel 
before setting up any economic projects with the Jewish state. 

