BFN 

  [Text] Pietersburg May 3 SAPA -- Former Lebowa Chief 
Minister Nelson Ramodike on Tuesday [3 May] said his homeland 
government had achieved far less than he had hoped for and the 
successes scored were too few to console his people. Adressing 
former cabinet ministers on Tuesday, Mr Ramodike congratulated 
South African President-elect Nelson Mandela and the African 
National Congress on their election victory. 
  He said it was through Mr Mandela's leadership that "we have 
all learnt the strength of unity and togetherness, a unity of 
common purpose and fellowship". Mr Ramodike urged all political 
parties to heed Mr Mandela's plea to bury the hatchet. 
  He said Lebowa's history was one of tragedy and remorse and 
that in spite of the "frantic attempts that we have made to 
overcome the barriers, the successes we have scored have been 
far too little to console the hunger and anger of our people". 
  He said when he assumed leadership of the homeland the 
immediate challenge was to uproot corruption in government 
departments. "I took the initiative to have a commission of 
inquiry appointed to expose mismanagement and misappropriation 
of funds in the territory...the findings of the commission, 
which were appalling to say the least, were turned against me 
and my cabinet. 
  "One wonders what it could have cost the taxpayer had I, 
like 
many of the other homeland leaders, suppressed and covered up 
the graft that was taking place in this territory." 

