BFN 

  [Text] Vietnam yesterday dismissed China's claim of 
sovereignty over the Blue Dragon oilfield in the Vietnamese 
continental shelf as "totally unacceptable", but said Hanoi 
would not go to war with Beijing over it. 
  Vietnamese Prime Minister Vo Van Kiet told THE STRAITS TIMES 
in an interview: "We have to defend our territories. But there 
is no reason for us to use force in this in stance because there 
has been an improvement in relations between China and Vietnam." 
  The state-run PetroVietnam oil company is working with Mobil 
on exploring the Blue Dragon (Than Long) field, which the 
Vietnamese government claims is not part of the Spratlys. But 
China has said that the zone on the Vietnamese continental shelf 
should be transferred to the disputed Spratly-island chain -- 
claimed wholly or in part by Brunei, China, Malaysia, the 
Philippines, Taiwan and Vietnam. 
  Said Mr. Kiet: "Their claim to our territory is out of the 
question but we will try to resolve it by peaceful means." 
  Vietnam had called for measures to ease tensions. 
  Mr. Kiet said Hanoi and Beijng were also pursuing diplomatic 
means to resolve their dispute over the Paracel islands, which 
both countries are claiming. 
  "The Paracel issue is separate from the Spratlys dispute. It 
is strictly between Vietnam and China and can be solved through 
negotiation," he said. 
  China is reported to have deployed warplanes at an air base 
on the largest island in the Paracel chain to expand its 
striking power over the region. But Mr. Kiet said it was 
unlikely that the two countries would use force, as they did in 
l988 over the disputed islands when their navies clashed. 
  "The trend in the world and the region is economic growth 
and 
development. It will not benefit China and Vietnam to go to 
war," he said. 

