Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] The ANC [African National Congress] is not mincing 
words about the situation in Bophuthatswana. Secretary General 
Cyril Ramaphosa says it is time for action. 
  [Begin recording] [Correspondent Jessica Pitchford] A moment 
of silence for BBC [British Broadcasting Corporation] 
correspondent John Harrison. 
  [Ramaphosa] He died during the course of duty, but as a 
result of the situation that is unfolding in Bophuthatswana. 
  [Pitchford] That situation, Cyril Ramaphosa told 
journalists, 
is getting out of hand. 
  [Ramaphosa] We now have a deep concern that unless action is 
taken with immediate effect we might be facing a situation which 
could even be worse than Bosho. 
  [Pitchford] Possible intervention in Bophuthatswana is high 
on the agenda of the Transitional Executive Council. 
  [Ramaphosa] The intervention could take various forms. It 
could include the South African Defense Force being deployed in 
that area, and ensuring -- not in an aggressive way, we would 
say -- ensuring that South African citizens are protected. 
  [Pitchford] In the eyes of the ANC, Bophuthatswana President 
Lucas Mangope is clearly public enemy number one. 
  [Ramaphosa] It is a selfish stubbornness which he is 
displaying, hanging on to power which he knows he is going to 
lose. 
  [Pitchford] ANC President Nelson Mandela seems to agree. 
  [Mandela] I have done everything in my power to get Chief 
Mangope to cooperate with us in addressing the problems within 
his bantustan. I do not think that I am in a position to do 
anything more. 
  [Pitchford] Not surprisingly, there was no comment from the 
Bophuthatswana consulate here in Johannesburg, but a spokesman 
for the embassy in Pretoria told me he was panicking. Another 
spokesman said there was not much hope of calming the situation 
in Bophuthatswana, with ANC leaders making what he termed 
derogatory statements. [end recording] 

