BFN 

  [Text] The public security bureau of Yantai Port has 
adopted effective measures to deal stern blows to the 
trafficking and selling of counterfeit bank notes. 
  The Yantai-Dalian route is one of the busiest passenger sea 
routes in China, and each year some 250 million passengers have 
entered and departed Yantai Port. Thus, this route has usually 
been called the "golden waterway." In recent years, the public 
security bureau of Yantai Port has organized capable and 
vigorous cadres to maintain public security by setting up posts, 
making rounds, and intercepting criminals. Since March 1993, 
the bureau has investigated 12 cases of trafficking and selling 
counterfeit bank notes which involved 16 persons and a total 
amount of 85,400 yuan. 
  Most of the adventurers found carrying large amounts of 
counterfeit bank notes were peasants in Henan and Anhui. 
Unwilling to hoe crops at high noon and to gain prosperity 
through hard work, these peasants indulged in deals forbidden by 
the state, that is, the purchase of bundles of counterfeit bank 
notes from dark corners for sale later in northeast China 
through this "golden waterway." However, they could not avoid 
the discerning eyes of public security cadres and policemen. On 
27 April this year, at the foyer of the Yantai Passenger Station 
where tickets are sold, Li Fuqing, a policeman of the police 
substation of the Yantai Port Public Security Bureau, seized a 
27-year-old peasant from Anhui Province who had hidden 12,600 
yuan in counterfeit bank notes in the sleeves of a sweater in 
his handbag which he planned on selling in northeast China, just 
as he bought his ship ticket. 

