BFN 

<F P=106> [Interview with Prime Minister Dr. 'Abd-al-Salam al-Majali </F>
by Shakir al-Jawhari in Amman on 13 June; "published in AL-ASWAQ 
in coordination with al-Shariqah AL-KHALIJ newspaper"] 
  [Text] [al-Jawhari] Mr. Prime Minister, you will leave for 
Washington tomorrow [14 June] to join his majesty the king on 
his visit to the United States. Would you brief us on the 
agenda of your talks in the American capital? 
  [Al-Majali] We have a joint Jordanian-U.S. committee to 
discuss all issues related to bilateral relations. This 
committee always meets at this time in the presence of his 
majesty the king in Washington to strengthen relations and 
resolve any pending issues between Jordan and the United States. 
  [Al-Jawhari] Are there currently any pending issues, except 
the issue of al-'Aqabah Port? 
  [Al-Majali] The main topic on the agenda now is the entire 
Middle East file. Also, there are the issues related to 
Jordanian economy, support, and debts. 
  [Al-Jawhari] What is the size of the Jordanian debts to the 
United States? 
  [Al-Majali] Jordan's indebtedness to the United States is 
estimated at a large sum of money. I do not know the exact 
figure, but the debts are not less than 1,000 million dollars. 
  [Al-Jawhari] What about U.S. aid to Jordan? 
  [Al-Majali] We must review this issue as well as economic 
support for Jordan, particularly since we are passing through a 
delicate economic stage. There should be a remedy for this. 
  [Al-Jawhari] It was announced that his majesty the king 
discussed this issue during his previous visit to Washington? 
  [Al-Majali] Measures were taken at that time, however, we 
seek further measures to strengthen this cooperation. 
  [Al-Jawhari] Do you expect the recent agreements on the 
sub-agendas with Israel to improve the objective circumstances 
that would help the U.S. Administration make a decision to 
resume aid to Jordan? 
  [Al-Majali] Of course, we hope so. This is what should be 
done. As you know, America is a major sponsor of the peace 
process. Therefore, we must discuss all aspects of this issue. 
It is known that the circumstances that follow the peace 
process will be more serious and more delicate than the 
circumstances that follow wars because people seek a better 
life. How can we achieve a better life if we do not have a 
strong and progressive economy. 
  [Al-Jawhari] Will you present specific economic requests to 
the U.S. Administration? 
  [Al-Majali] The economic issue is as large as the sea. We 
will present all issues that could be discussed. We, of course, 
have giant projects that need to be tackled. We also have other 
issues related to security forces that need continuous U.S. 
support because protecting security is not less important than 
protecting the homeland. 
  [Al-Jawhari] The joint statement which was issued recently 
following the meeting between the Jordanian and Israeli 
delegations in Washington noted briefly the canal project 
linking the Red Sea to the Dead Sea. 
  [Al-Majali] It is still a dream. All these issues are part 
of the peace scene. However, a long time is needed to assess 
the feasibility and returns of such an accomplishment. 
  [Al-Jawhari] Are you Mr. Prime Minister optimistic that 
peace 
would achieve economic prosperity in Jordan? 
  [Al-Majali] All my life I have been optimistic. There can be 
no peace in a region where there is a big disparity in people's 
incomes. There can be no peace between a country where the 
average income of an individual is $15,000 a year, as the case 
is in Israel, and the Arab countries, which are interested in 
peace and where the income of an individual is $2,000 a year. 
  Peace cannot be achieve when there is this big difference in 
the individual's rate of income. There must be a change. 
  [Al-Jawhari] Is it correct that the U.S. Administration 
proposed to Jordan the convening of a public tripartite summit 
between his majesty the king, Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhaq 
Rabin, and U.S. President Bill Clinton in Washington, and that 
Jordan has rejected this at the present stage? 
  [Al-Majali] I have no information about such proposal. I 
have not heard of it. 
  [Al-Jawhari] There has been no Jordanian reaction to the 
Israeli reports that his majesty the king met secretly with 
Rabin in London? 
  [Al-Majali] We do not have to issue a denial each time 
Israel 
sends out a test balloon. 
  [Al-Jawhari] There are reports that his majesty the king 
telephoned Syrian President Hafiz al-Asad before he left for 
Washington. How true are these reports? 
  [Al-Majali] I do not have information on this, and his 
majesty did not inform me of such a contact, but it is known 
that his majesty is in continuous contact with His Excellency 
Hafiz al-Asad and their relations are very warm. Our strategy 
and theirs are in full accord. Our dream is that our relations 
will be strong, advanced, and continue to move forward. 
  [Al-Jawhari] Your Excellency, how do you view the 
possibility 
of containing the current situation between the two countries? 
  [Al-Majali] The current situation may be the result of 
influence of a third party, an individual or a state, that does 
not like Jordanian-Syrian relations to be so good, so it tries 
to make problems here and there. Sometimes there is inaccurate 
reading of a certain subject. For our part, I would like to 
emphasize that we believe in a comprehensive solution. We do 
not at all believe in separate actions. We believe in 
coordination, but we and all others admit that the pace of 
negotiations is different on different tracks because every 
track has its own problems. This is something that the four 
concerned parties, Syria, Jordan, Lebanon, and the Palestinians 
admit. 
  [Al-Jawhari] Does the difference in positions between Jordan 
and the Gulf states on the Yemeni crisis obstruct the hoped-for 
Jordanian-Gulf meeting? 
  [Al-Majali] I hope this will not at all happen. Regarding 
Yemen, we believe in unity, we have full faith in any unity, and 
we fear secession and division, not only in Yemen but in every 
Arab country, and every Arab country could suffer what Yemen is 
currently suffering. We believe in unity and we support any 
unity. We are not with one party against another, and this is 
clear. As for our terms in the press about the constitutional 
legitimacy that should be respected, it is because elections 
were held freely and honestly. These elections led to a 
parliament which elected a Presidential Council and a chairman 
for this council. We cannot abandon unity, and we believe in 
unity, but at the same time we do not approve fighting 
regardless of its causes. 
  [Al-Jawhari] Is Jordan currently making any efforts to solve 
the Yemeni crisis? 
  [Al-Majali] We are always ready to make efforts to close 
Arab 
ranks. I spoke more than once about the need to admit that 
there are Arab differences, and I propose solving them in the 
same manner economic issues are solved. I propose scheduling 
resolvement of these differences within 10 years, and to suspend 
discussing them during the first three years, and then we open 
the files one after another. As for now, let's forget all 
differences for three years because we are passing through very 
delicate circumstances within the framework of the world order, 
regional order, and the proposed Middle East market. If we do 
not have a common position on these issues, we will all be 
destroyed by them. 
  [Al-Jawhari] Have you presented your idea about scheduling 
differences to the Arab countries? 
  [Al-Majali] I did not present it officially, but I am 
presenting it openly, and I thank the press for propagating it. 
I think the only possible solution is through admitting that 
there are problems between Arab countries, and then to decide to 
solve them within 10 years, with the first three years being a 
grace period in which we do not discuss these differences. 
  [Al-Jawhari] Is there any other way? 
  [Al-Majali] If we open the files of differences now we may 
clash. We should postpone discussing these differences, hoping 
to find points on which we agree and work on their basis, and 
leave the points of disagreement for discussion at the 
appropriate time. 

