BFN 

  [Text] Guatemala City, 31 Mar (NOTIMEX) -- Today, the 
National Police reported that U.S. citizen Duncan Miller Aykena 
was wounded by unidentified individuals, who shot at him from a 
moving vehicle on a street in the Guatemalan capital. The report 
adds that Miller Aykena was taken to a medical center after he 
had been shot four times; his condition is critical. 
  The National Police did not rule out that the attack is the 
result of the psychosis that exists in Guatemala due to the 
"wave" of child kidnappings. The people believe these 
kidnappings are carried out by gangs composed of mostly U.S. 
citizens. 
  This past week in the countryside, two U.S. tourists, one 
reporter, and two seismologists were attacked, as well as one 
Swiss geologist. The Guatemalan Government has already condemned 
the violence against foreigners while it has asked all 
Guatemalans for calm as well as respect toward the tourists. 
  Meanwhile, Government Minister Danilo Parinello assured that 
the possibility of imposing a state of emergency is being 
studied. This would limit the constitutional guarantees of more 
than 10 million Guatemalans. Parinello added: "The violent and 
criminal actions against foreigners must stop, otherwise a state 
of emergency could be decreed." 
  Meanwhile, the U.S. Government has already advised tourists 
"not to travel to Guatemala," in light of a possible attack that 
could result in death. The Attorney General's Office confirmed 
that so far this year almost 66 reports of missing or kidnapped 
children in Guatemala have been filed. 

