CSO 

<F P=106> [Article by Wu Chao [2976 6389]: "China's Population </F>
Growth Is Steady but Declining Slightly"] 
  [Text] A 1993 sampling of China's population change showed 
that China's population growth is steady but declining slightly. 
Our birth rate is 1.809 percent, with a death rate of 0.664 
percent, and a natural growth rate of 1.145 percent. Projected 
from this, Mainland China's population at the end of 1993 was 
1.18517 billion. 
  Projected from this sampling, 21.26 million people were born 
in China in 1993, for a birth rate of 1.809 percent, or down 
0.015 points from 1992. In 1993, 7.8 million people died in 
China, for a death rate of 0.664 percent, the same as in 1992. 
And our natural growth rate was down 0.015 points from 1992, 
giving us a net population increase for 1993 of 13.46 million, 
20,000 less than the 13.48 million for 1992. 
  Our 1993 real birth rate was 0.249 points lower than 
planned, 
giving us 3.06 million less real births than planned; our real 
natural population growth rate was 0.234 points lower than 
planned, for a real net population increase of 2.94 million less 
than planned. 
  Analysis of this population-change sampling showed that of 
the 713 children born in Beijing, 35, or 5 percent, were born to 
the floating population that had come to Beijing from other 
parts of China. A survey of Wuhan's floating population showed 
that the average birthrate for women in the floating population 
from other parts of China was twice that of women from Wuhan. So 
conscientiously tightening family-planning control of the 
floating population will be a glaring future problem that will 
need to be solved. 
  While China has achieved great population-control successes, 
with the number of women at their childbearing peak having 
topped out and begun a sustained decline in 1992, China's large 
population base means that over 100 million women a year will 
still be at their childbearing peak from 1994 to the year 2000. 
So population figures say that we need to keep cool heads 
about the protracted nature and difficulty of China's 
population-control mission, by emphasizing family planning 
persistently and well. 

