CSO 

<F P=106> [Article by Alonso Gomez Uranga] </F>
  [Text] Torreon, Coahuila, 28 March--Federal Judicial Police 
(PJF) agents in Coahuila arrested two persons from whom they 
confiscated 4,187 kg of cocaine. It was being carried on a 
butane gas tank truck, which was intercepted at Km 54+56 of the 
Saltillo-Concepcion del Oro highway. The announcement was made 
today by that force's commander, Juan Carlos Alvarado. 
  He reported that the tank truck carrying the drugs was of 
the 
Tacsa make, bearing the initials HGS (Horacio Gonzalez Serna). 
  Arrested on the scene of the incident were Raul Juarez Paz, 
aged 37, and Miguel Angel Salazar Ramirez, 25, both natives of 
Uruapan, Michoacan. According to the officer they were left at 
the disposal of the authorities in the Federal Public 
Prosecutor's Office. 
  He noted that the tank truck was detected because it was 
being driven at excessive speed on the aforementioned route, 
prompting the agents to order it stopped, so as to search its 
interior. 
  He remarked that, while this action was being taken, the 
tank 
truck's occupants appeared nervous and, when its load was 
inspected, the drugs were found contained in 2,162 packages, 
distributed in 168 bags. 
  He added that, in their preliminary statements, those 
arrested claimed that the merchandise had been delivered to them 
in the city of Guadalajara, to be transferred to Cadereyta, 
Nuevo Leon. 
  According to the police chief, this cocaine shipment is the 
largest ever seized in Coahuila. 

