Article   Type:BFN 

  [Editorial Report] The following is a compilation of 
reports on drug seizures and arrests related to drug trafficking 
monitored through 3 February. 
<H5>  Argentina </H5>
  Federal Police have seized 600 kg of coca so far this year 
during operations in the northwestern provinces, and placed 
approximately 50 suspected drug traffickers at the disposal of 
the court. Police also reported that 10 metric tons of coca were 
seized in the border area in 1993. (Buenos Aires NOTICIAS 
ARGENTINAS in Spanish 2218 GMT 27 Jan 94) 
  Federal Police arrested a couple and seized 25 kg of cocaine 
at the Retiro bus terminal in Buenos Aires. The blanket-wrapped 
drugs came from bordering countries and were destined for Salta 
and Jujuy Provinces. Police also raided the detainees' house in 
the federal capital, where they seized a large amount of very 
pure cocaine. (Buenos Aires NOTICIAS ARGENTINAS in Spanish 1953 
GMT 1 Feb 94) 
<H5>  Brazil </H5>
  Police on 29 January arrested German citizen Hans Hart Gerus 
in the Manaus airport for carrying 5 kg of pure cocaine covered 
with honey to prevent dogs from smelling it. The suspect came 
from Leticia, Colombia, and was on his way to Frankfurt, 
Germany. (Rio de Janeiro Rede Globo Television in Portuguese 
2200 GMT 29 Jan 94) 
<H5>  Chile </H5>
  More than 5 metric tons of marijuana were seized by police 
during a major operation in the Sixth Region's Las Cabras 
borough. Miguel Lagos Caceres, the owner of the property were 
the marijuana was cultivated and leader of the drug trafficking 
ring, and Guillermo Herrera Cabellos, overseer of the 
plantation, were taken into custody. (Santiago Radio 
Cooperativa Network in Spanish 1000 GMT 29 Jan 94) 
  Carabineros have discovered the largest marijuana plantation 
in recent years at the Caren farm, Coltauco, in the Sixth 
Region. The Rancagua Criminal Court judge has ordered the 
destruction of 15 metric tons of marijuana. Two farmers 
identified as Juan Antonio Perez, 24, and Juan Enrique Aros, 29, 
have been arrested in connection with the discovery. (Santiago 
Television Nacional de Chile Imagen Internacional in Spanish 
0000 GMT 3 Feb 94) 
<H5>  Paraguay </H5>
  National Narcotics Directorate personnel arrested Fortunato 
Fernando Amaral, allegedly linked to international drug cartels, 
and seized 2 kg of cocaine in Pedro Juan Caballero, Amambay 
Department. (Asuncion ULTIMA HORA in Spanish 3 Feb 94 p 64) 
<H5>  Peru </H5>
  A shipment of 31.3 kg of washed cocaine paste was seized in 
the possession of three drug traffickers in a car on Miraflores 
Avenue in Trujillo. They are Juan Manuel Mejia Vega, 27; Omar 
Arias Paiva, 24; and Edgar Antonio Moran Barrera, who reported 
that the drug was bound for Lima. (Lima EL COMERCIO in Spanish 
20 Jan 94 p A13) 
  On 25 January, Iquitos customs personnel found 5 kg of very 
pure cocaine paste and arrested Hernan Lopez Pizarro, 26, and 
Rosa Llaque de Lopez, 24. The drug was hidden in the cargo of a 
boat linking Yurimaguas and Iquitos. (Lima EL COMERCIO in 
Spanish 26 Jan 94 p A13) 
  General Nicolas Hermoza Rios, chairman of the Armed Forces 
Joint Command, on 26 January reported that 13 Army officers, 
including five senior officers, three junior officers, and three 
NCO's, were sentenced to prison on charges of being involved 
with drug traffickers operating in the Upper Huallaga zone. 
(Lima EXPRESO in Spanish 27 Jan 94 p A4) 

