BFN 

  [Text] Warsaw, May 4 -- Leaders of five right-wing parties 
criticised the ruling coalition at a press conference on 
Wednesday for attempts to politically subordinate the public 
television. Representatives of the Real Politics Union (UPR), 
the Conservative Party (PK), the Party of Christian Democrats 
(PChD), the Peasant-Christian Party (SLCh) and the 
National-Democratic Party (SND) believe that the coalition aims 
to recall members of the National TV and Radio Council and the 
board of the public television. 
  According to PK leader Aleksander Hall, the process leads to 
the return of the monopoly on information in TV and "must be 
regarded as an attempt on freedom." Hall stressed that such 
tendencies are particularly visible in the present situation in 
the country, tense because of strikes. 
  Hall also pointed to the fact that the way of thinking of 
the 
coalition is the legacy of the communist regime, when the mass 
media were considered to serve the ruling authorities. "We 
defend the principle of the independence of the mass media from 
the current leadership of the state," Hall added. 
  Stanislaw Michalkiewicz from the UPR emphasised that the 
public television lives on taxpayer's money and no political 
power can claim to rule over this medium. "Television is not 
supposed to pay compliments to the authorities but to broadcast 
news", Michalkiewicz said. 

