BFN 

<F P=106> [Report by Diethart Goos: "Four RAF Members Escaped Police"] </F>
  [Excerpt] Schwerin -- During the police operation of Bad 
Kleinen in June 1993 against leading Red Army Faction [RAF] 
members Wolfgang Grams and Birgit Hogefeld, the security 
authorities obviously uncovered another four suspected 
terrorists. However, they were not arrested for "tactical" 
reasons in connection with the investigations. This was 
confirmed yesterday by Herbert Helmrich, justice minister of 
Mecklenburg Western Pomerania, in an interview with DIE WELT. 
  At the station of the small town in Mecklenburg Western 
Pomerania, suspected terrorist Grams shot dead policeman Michael 
Newrzella before he was killed himself. According to 
investigations by the state prosecutor, Grams either committed 
suicide or died accidentally by his own gun. Birgit Hogefeld 
was arrested. 
  Justice Minister Helmrich told DIE WELT that an observation 
group of the Wiesbaden-based Federal Office of Criminal 
Investigations [BKA] was in Bad Kleinen in early June, about two 
weeks before the police operation. The BKA had information 
according to which several top terrorists of the RAF's command 
level were planning to vacation in Mecklenburg. With 
remote-control cameras -- one was installed in a trash can, 
another one in a Volkswagen van -- a suspicious couple was 
filmed. The cameras provided surprisingly clear pictures. The 
suspected terrorists were not rounded up because the BKA wanted 
to get more information. 
  On 27 June 1993, some 90 minutes before the shoot-out at the 
station, apart from Grams and Hogefeld, another couple was being 
observed as behaving conspicuously. According to information 
from Schwerin, this couple has been identified. They were not 
rounded up either for tactical reasons. The two young people 
managed to disappear. [passage omitted] 

