Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] Prague, Feb 14 (CTK) -- Czech Premier Vaclav Klaus 
telephoned Slovak Premier Vladimir Meciar to ask Slovakia to 
abandon its requirement that all imported food products carry a 
quality certificate, Klaus said today after the cabinet had 
debated the measure. He said Meciar promised him the Slovak 
Government would "seriously consider" Klaus's request on Tuesday 
[15 February]. Slovakia introduced the unilateral measure on 
February 11, one day after informing the Czech customs 
authorities. 
  Klaus said the requirement should be revoked at least until 
the next extraordinary meeting of the Customs Union Council. "We 
do not consider (the measure) right and fair," he said, adding 
it was made possible in his view by ambiguities in the minutes 
from the last Customs Union Council meeting. Both the Czech and 
Slovaks would probably interpret the minutes differently, which 
may prove to be an obstacle to resolving the problem, he said. 
  The Czech Republic does categorically not agree that 
Slovakia's trade balance with it should be "artificially 
improved" by impeding the access of Czech goods to the Slovak 
market in this way, he said. 
  "It is, I think, evident that the measure was not provoked 
by 
our having bad quality food products but by something else," he 
said. A similar counter-measure by the Czechs would be "the 
stupidest thing" to do in reaction to Slovakia's decision, he 
said. 

