BFN 

<F P=106> ["Statement of the Heads of Government of the Republic of </F>
Latvia, the Republic of Estonia, and the Republic of Lithuania" 
issued in Tallinn on 13 June; from the Latvian Foreign Ministry 
Information Bulletin No. 24/94 (55), 13-20 June; received via 
Internet BALT-L] 
  [Text] We, the Heads of Government of the Baltic States, in 
the interests of deepening and widening mutual understanding, 
cooperation and friendly relations between Estonia, Latvia and 
Lithuania, and being desirous to strengthen regional cooperation 
in the context of European integration processes, met in Tallinn 
on June 13, 1994, and established a Baltic Council of Ministers. 
  At the founding session of the Baltic Council of Ministers 
we 
adopted Terms of Reference for the Council. The Minister 
President of the Republic of Latvia was elected chairman of the 
Baltic Council of Ministers for the first year, until 1 July 
1995. 
  We also signed an Agreement on Baltic Parliamentary and 
Governmental Cooperation between the Republic of Estonia, the 
Republic of Latvia and the Republic of Lithuania. We view the 
signing of this Agreement as an historic step towards the 
integration of the Baltic States into the European Union. 
  We consider that there is still much to be done to 
strengthen 
practical cooperation. Among the first priorities is to ensure 
the provision of social security for citizens of one Baltic 
State living on the territory of another, the standardization of 
customs systems and the facilitation of border-crossings between 
our countries. Signed by Valdis Birkavs, Minister President of 
the Republic of Latvia; Adolfas Slezevicius, Prime Minister of 
the Republic of Lithuania; Mart Laar, Prime Minister of the 
Republic of Estonia 
  Tallinn, 13 June, 1994 

