BFN 

  [Text] Bonn (DPA) -- As of immediately, German companies 
must not export antipersonnel mines any more. An export 
moratorium to this effect was adopted by the Federal Cabinet on 
Wednesday [8 June]. The regulation is limited to a period of 
three years, because, in the long term, the Federal Government 
is seeking an international solution. Exports for the purpose 
of examination and training within the framework of German NATO 
obligations are excluded from the moratorium. 
  Even now, the export of such mines are subject to the 
weapons 
export law. Export licenses for such arms were issued only for 
small numbers in the recent past, anyway. 
  Foreign Minister Klaus Kinkel said that antipersonnel mines 
belong to the category of particularly cruel arms. Each week 
many civilians were killed or mutilated through such mines 
everywhere in the world. The current regulations are 
insufficient to protect the population. He was hoping that more 
countries would follow Germany's step, Kinkel said. 
  The Cabinet also made a decision in favor of rewriting the 
export list to step up export checks in sensitive areas. At the 
same time this will make exports easier and simplify procedures. 
The threshold values for computer and electronics will be 
raised. According to the Economics Ministry, the number of 
applications for export licenses filed at the responsible 
Federal Office will decline noticeably, which means a sizable 
reduction of the burden for export enterprises. 

