BFN 

  [Excerpts] Cologne/Munich/Bonn (DPA) -- Voices calling for 
a ban of the right-wing extremist Republikaner or at least their 
classification as a right-wing extremist party are multiplying. 
In addition to Michael Friedman, member of the Presidium of the 
Central Council of Jews in Germany, who advocated a ban of the 
Republikaner in the Cologne newspaper EXPRESS, Deputy Social 
Democratic Party of Germany Chairwoman Herta Daeubler-Gmelin 
demanded, on Western German Radio on Friday [8 April], that the 
Republikaner be declared a right-wing extremist party. 
  In the meantime, Bavarian Justice Minister Hermann Leeb 
(Christian Social Union) has supported the decision by the 
Landshut public prosecutor's office not to initiate 
investigations against Republikaner Chairman Franz Schoenhuber 
for instigating people. [passage omitted] Leeb rejected 
criticism of the public prosecutor's office as unjustified. In 
assessing facts the office cannot orient itself toward political 
demands or statements, he stressed. 
  Christian Democratic Union [CDU] member Friedman said, 
regarding the findings by the North Rhine-Westphalian Office for 
the protection of the Constitution about acts of violence 
committed by Republikaner: "I think that Republikaner 
functionaries are people who commit verbal acts of violence, 
indirectly increase xenophobic prejudices, and thus provoke 
violence. Political functionaries and their groups, which stand 
outside the Basic Law with their statements, must be banned." 
  Speaking to the press in Bonn on Friday, a spokesman for the 
FRG Interior Ministry did not want to comment on the status of 
the party in the current Constitutional Protection Report. He 
pointed to the presentation of the report planned for next week. 
In the Baden-Wuerttemberg Landtag the CDU group wants to 
discuss the controversy over Schoenhuber in a topical debate 
entitled "Anti-Semitism as Schoenhuber's Political Strategy." 

