BFN 

  [Text] Tunis, Jun 16--The brother secretary of the General 
People's Committee for Foreign Liaison and International 
Cooperation has stressed the Great Jamahiriyah's appreciation 
for the great support it received from the heads of African 
states participating in the proceedings of the 30th OAU summit 
that ended in Tunis yesterday. 
  He referred to the two resolutions of the 60th session of 
the 
African states' foreign ministers and the 30th session of heads 
of African states, which both supported the Great Jamahiriyah's 
position in its crisis with the Western states. 
  The brother secretary said that the explicit support that we 
have received from this conference has made this crisis an 
African crisis, and he stressed the importance of the 
resolutions of the African summit, which represents the will of 
35 African states who are UN members. 
  He praised the efforts of Tunisian President Zine El Abidine 
Ben Ali and Egyptian President Husni Mubarak, and their foreign 
ministers, in crystallizing the African stance on the crisis 
between the Great Jamahiriyah and the Western states. He called 
for work to continue to implement the resolution issued by the 
African summit in this regard. 
  The brother secretary of the General People's Committee for 
Foreign Liaison and International Cooperation stressed that the 
border problem between the Great Jamahiriyah and Chad had been 
solved once and for all, culminating in the signing of a pact of 
good neighborliness and cooperation between the two countries. 
  He explained that Libya was a country that respected the law 
and international laws, pointing out that the Great Jamahiriyah 
had undertaken to implement the ruling of the International 
Court of Justice regarding the Aouzou strip and to resolve its 
border problem with Chad. 
  He said that the Great Jamahiriyah had implemented a ruling 
of the International Court of Justice for the third time, which 
confirmed that Libya abided by the laws issued by the 
International Court of Justice. He pointed out that it was the 
great powers who refused to implement the decisions issued by 
such courts, observing that some of these states had broken 
international laws in the past and had failed to implement laws 
issued by the international body [words indistinct] that Libya 
knows who is above the law and who actually respects the law. 

