BFN 

  [Text] Tallinn, 13 May, BNS -- Prime Minister Mart Laar 
returned Thursday [12 May] night from a working visit to the 
United Kingdom. During the visit Laar and Foreign Secretary 
Douglas Hurd signed intergovernmental agreements on reciprocal 
promotion and protection of investments and on avoidance of 
double taxation and prevention of tax evasion. 
  Government spokesman Ain Saarna told reporters Hurd 
emphasized at the meeting with the Estonian premier that Russian 
troops must pull out from Estonia without setting extra 
conditions. Other subjects Laar and Hurd touched upon were 
Estonia's prospective European Union membership, defense 
cooperation between the two countries, and purchasing equipment 
for the Estonian border guard. 
  President of the European Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development Jacques de Larosiere hosted Thursday a luncheon in 
honor of the Estonian premier. The two reached agreement in 
principle on setting up risk capital and trade development 
capital funds for Estonia. Laar had yesterday a meeting also 
with the British Industry Confederation. 
  While staying in Great Britain, Laar received a letter from 
Prime Minister John Major expressing his country's firm support 
for Estonia's integration into European structures and for the 
demand that Russian troops be withdrawn from Estonia by 31 
August 1994. 
  The Estonian premier met also with Minister of State Douglas 
Hogg. Saarna said Hogg, too, stated that he supports 
unconditional withdrawal of Russian troops and Estonia's 
integration into Europe. 

