Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] The Italian foreign minister and chairman of the 
Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe, Professor 
Beniamino Andreatta, paid a one-day visit to Lithuania on 
Friday. Lithuanian Prime Minister Adolfas Slezevicius and the 
Italian foreign minister signed the first Lithuanian/Italian 
agreement on cooperation in the spheres of economy, production, 
and technology. The agreement is valid for a term of 10 years. 
The delegation led by the Italian foreign minister was received 
by President Algirdas Brazauskas. 
  At the meeting, Professor Benjamin Andreatta said that 
Western states expected Lithuania's contribution to easing 
tension between Russia and the Baltic states of Latvia and 
Estonia. As to the possibilities of Lithuania's integration 
into the European Union, the Italian minister said that if 
Lithuania maintained good relations with Russia it could expect 
Italy's support in seeking a free trade agreement with the 
European Union and an associated membership in that 
organization. Bilateral Lithuanian/Italian relations, as well 
as those with neighboring countries, were discussed in greater 
detail at a roundtable talk with members of the Lithuanian 
Parliamentary Foreign Affairs Committee and deputy foreign 
ministers. 
  Italian Foreign Minister Beniamino Andreatta also had a 
meeting with Chairman of the Lithuanian Parliament, Ceslovas 
Jursenas. 

