BFN 

  [Text] Tunis, 6 June (PANA) -- The Rwandese Patriotic Front 
(RPF) supports the United Nations decision to send a 
peace-keeping force into Rwanda, but objects to number of troops 
proposed, the front's representative told PANA in Tunis Monday 
[6 June]. 
  Bizimungu Pasteur, who is representing the RPF at the 
five-day OAU ministerial council of ministers, which has just 
opened in the Tunisian capital, said in an interview that "a 
force of 5,500 is exaggerated. About 2,000 is acceptable to the 
RPF." Bizimungu is an executive committee member of the RPF and 
was designated to be interior minister in the broad-based 
government of Rwanda, under the 4 August agreement with the 
Rwandese Government. He said the UN and the OAU should be 
completely clear in their definition of the mandate of the 
peace-keeping force. Fourteen African countries announced in 
Harare over the weekend that they were prepared to send troops 
into Rwanda to end the bloodletting there. 
  Rwanda's warring parties ended ceasefire talks last week 
with 
no new progress toward a truce and with the RPF vowing to fight 
on. Aid workers said many of the more than a million people 
uprooted by the massacres could die unless supplies of food and 
medicine reach them soon. The OAU is supporting international 
efforts to bring to justice the individual leaders responsible 
for the killings in Rwanda, where an estimated 500,000 people 
have been killed in one of Africa's most horrible tribal wars. 
  The war was sparked by the killing, on 6 April, of Rwanda's 
president, Juvenal Habyarimana, a Hutu, in a mysterious plane 
crash near Kigali. His death sparked revenge killings against 
the minority Tutsi, who also constitute the majority among RPF 
combatants. 

