BFN 

  [Text] A "statement on the use of nuclear arms," which the 
government will soon submit to the International Court of 
Justice, is of the opinion that "the use of nuclear arms is not 
necessarily a violation of international law." Questions are 
being asked within the ruling coalition parties about the 
statement because Japan is the only victim of atomic bombs in 
the world and the statement is likely to trigger a controversy. 
  Last year, the World Health Organization (WHO) asked the 
International Court of Justice about whether "the use of nuclear 
weapons is illegal or not under the international law." In 
response, the International Court of Justice has requested each 
nation to submit its statement by 10 June this year. The 
statement in question has been compiled in response to the 
request from the International Court of Justice. The statement, 
which was compiled by the government on 4 June, notes, "The use 
of nuclear weapons does not conform to the humanitarian spirit 
manifested in the international law." The statement, however, 
says, "Speaking from the assessment of the international law, it 
cannot be said that a legal perception has been established in 
the international community that the use of nuclear weapons is 
illegal under the international law." The Foreign Ministry is 
stressing that "there is no change in this government's legal 
view of the statement," (according to Foreign Ministry spokesman 
Terasuke Terada). 
  When the Foreign Ministry briefed secretaries in charge of 
policy affairs of the ruling coalition parties at a 2 June 
meeting on the statement, one secretary after another refuted 
the statement, asking, "From Japan's position of seeking total 
abolishment of nuclear weapons, can it say the use of nuclear 
weapons is not illegal under the international law?" The 
secretaries asked the Foreign Minister to give additional 
briefing on the statement in writing. 

