Language: <F P=105> Czech </F>
Article Type:BFN 

<F P=106> ["(lek)"-signed report: "Semtex Is Being Secretly </F>
Duplicated Abroad, Claims Synthesia"] 
  [Text] Pardubice -- A plastic explosive labelled Semtex, 
which is turning up all over the world, may not be the genuine 
product of the Synthesia Pardubice Company, but could -- 
according to Synthesia Spokesman Gregor Vavrina -- originate 
from some clandestine foreign producers. 
  According to the spokesman, Synthesia has information that 
such an explosive -- based on a formula similar to Semtex -- has 
plainly been manufactured abroad for several years. So far, 
however, the Pardubice company has been unable to obtain a 
sample of the so-called Semtex, which is apparently very similar 
to the original and has similar characteristics. Synthesia was 
the first company in the world to make its plastic explosives 
easy to detect in accordance with the 1991 international 
convention adopted within the framework of the struggle against 
terrorism. The export of Semtex was halted in 1989. Last year, 
Synthesia exported several dozen tonnes to Kuwait, where it was 
used to clear mine fields and destroy unexploded shells. 
  This November, Synthesia offered those countries to which it 
used to export Semtex the possibility of making the explosive 
detectable or, as the case many be, of destroying it free of 
charge if it was unsuitable for reprocessing. So far, according 
to the spokesman, no one has responded to this offer. 

