Language: <F P=105> Czech </F>
Article Type:BFN 

<F P=106> [Article by "(aha)": "The Discovery of Czech Scientists May </F>
Help Cure AIDS"] 
  [Text] Prague--The discovery of a new group of chemical 
substances by scientists from the Department of Chemistry and 
Biochemistry of the Czechoslovak Academy of Sciences in the 
mid-1980's can essentially affect the development of medical 
drugs against AIDS. The new drugs, based on the substance 
developed by the Czech scientists, affects diseases caused by 
the so-called DNA viruses, or retroviruses [retroviry], that 
appear in connection with immune deficiency, particularly in 
AIDS patients and patients who have undergone tissue transplants. 
  "The new preparation should solve, for example, the problem 
of shingles (an eye disease causing blindness), hepatitis, and 
even AIDS. It has an effect on viruses for which medical 
science has no drugs," Antonin Holy, from the Academy of 
Sciences said. Patients would take the drug once a week or at 
longer intervals. 
  The U.S. firm Gilead Sciences from California has obtained a 
license for utilizing the discovery of the Czech scientists and 
is attempting to manufacture the drug. In the United States, 
where the preparation is being tested on AIDS, experts say that 
it really affects the condition of people who suffer from 
full-blown AIDS. Clinical tests of all of the preparations are 
not yet completed. 

