BFN 

  [Text] Pretoria May 10 SAPA -- The United States wanted to 
be "as good a partner as possible" because South Africa's new 
government's success was essential, American Vice-President Al 
Gore said on Tuesday [10 May] night. Mr Gore and President 
Nelson Mandela were addressing the press after a meeting at the 
Presidency in Pretoria at which "in-depth" discussions were held 
on problems facing the Mandela administration. 
  He had briefed Mr Gore on the African National Congress' 
Reconstruction and Development Programme which would require 
"vast resources", Mr Mandela said. "Mr Gore has noted what I 
have said and I know if it is in his power he'll be able to 
consider it. In the past he has responded excellently to our 
proposals." 
  Mr Gore said he was briefed on Mr Mandela's intention to 
address the problems of 50 per cent unemployment, 60 per cent 
illiteracy and the seven million homeless people in South 
Africa. "The United States wishes to be as good a partner as is 
possible because the success of this government is essential for 
South Africa as a beacon of hope," Mr Gore said. 
  Mr Gore conveyed to Mr Mandela US President Bill Clinton's 
congratulations on his inauguration as president. They had also 
explored ways in which to address the civil war in Rwanda in 
central Africa, Mr Mandela said. He said he had not yet had 
talks with Organisation for African Unity Secretary-General 
Salim Ahmed Salim on the matter. Asked if he thought it 
advisable that the OAU or the international community organise a 
force to intervene in Rwanda, Mr Mandela said: "If a force went 
there for law and order and to save lives...that's necessary." 
He did not want to go into details about the matter before he 
had spoken to Mr Salim, he said. 

