CSO 

  [Text] The newspaper SALAM, quoting IRNA, printed a report 
on the excessive population increase in Iran and sounded the 
alarm. This report, which was prepared based on the Islamic 
Republic's official statistical sources, does a good job of 
showing the dark future the excessive population increase has 
spread before Iran. Below is a summary of this report for your 
consideration: 
  In the last 90 years, meaning from 1280 [21 March 1901-20 
March 1902] to 1370 [21 March 1991-20 March 1992], Iran's 
population has increased sixfold, and it is predicted that in 
the next 20 years it will increase to more than 120 million. 
According to the 1370 census, Iran's population was 55,837,163, 
and in the last two years this figure has exceeded 57 million. 
  Iran, with a population growth rate of 3.9 percent, had the 
highest population growth rate until a few years ago. The 
nation's population officials say that the population growth 
rate has now decreased to 2.3 percent (the experts believe that 
such a decrease in the population growth rate is not possible in 
a few years. Various sources in the Islamic Republic give 
differing statistics on Iran's population growth rate. Experts 
estimate this rate at between 3 and 3.5 percent). 
  According to this report, the number of women of 
child-bearing age will increase from 13,628,000 in the year 1372 
[21 March 1993-20 March 1994] to 16,138,000 in the year 1377 
[21 March 1998-20 March 1999]. Likewise, 6.5 births are expected 
for each Iranian woman, which according to the report, 
"unfortunately" equals the rate in the African continent and in 
some developing nations. 
  Another problem in Iranian society is the extraordinarily 
youthful mix of its population. Based on the 1370 census, the 
population between zero and 14 years of age totaled 24,723,000, 
and counting those born in the years 1371 [21 March 1992-20 
March 1993] and 1372, one must add another 2 million to this 
number. That is, more than 26 million of Iran's 57 million 
people are between zero and 14 years of age. 
  Based on the figures in the National Statistical Annual, 55 
percent of Iran's population is younger than 19 (meaning 
40,640,000), and 62 percent of the nation's population is under 
25. The average age for men is 23.41 years, the average age for 
women is 21.83 years, and the average age for the entire 
population is 22.13 years. Population experts cite illiteracy, 
the lack of social welfare and ignorance of the effects of 
increasing families as some of the causes of the population 
increase in Iran. These experts believe that even if the 
country's population growth rate completely stopped today, it 
would take at least 20 years to compensate for the population 
increases of the last 15 years, meaning the era of the 
government of the Islamic Republic. 
  Contrary to the way it appears in Tehran, where the women 
are 
working as shopkeepers, laborers, and merchants more than in the 
past, official statistics show that the number of women working 
in the 1355 [21 March 1976-20 March 1977] census was 1.2 
million, whereas in the year 1365 [21 March 1986-20 March 1987] 
that number decreased to 970,000, and yet in the last 15 years 
the number of women in the country increased by more than 12 
million. 
  To see the effects of this rapid growth on the people of 
Iran 
in the next 20 years, IRNA's report studied food and agriculture 
and their relationship to the population increase. It wrote: For 
suitable cultivation in the country, at least 4,000 mm of 
rainfall is required, but in Iran the average rainfall does not 
exceed 250 mm, and only 34 percent of that is actually used due 
to improper utilization, while the rest is wasted. 
  According to a statement from the Environmental Protection 
Organization, an average of 4.5 percent of the northern forests 
is lost every year. This means that theoretically in 23 years 
there will be no trace of a forest in the north. A total of 1.5 
million tons of the best and most appropriate arable soil, which 
is equal to 400,000 hectares [ha] of the nation's fruitful soil, 
is eroded as a result of excessive grazing, and if something is 
not done the erosion of fruitful soil will triple. 
  Likewise, close to one-fourth of the nation's area is taken 
up by the Lut Plain, the Kavir Plain and other barren lands, 
while forests only make up 1 percent of the nation's total area. 
  In view of the nation's 12.5 million ha of agricultural 
land, 
this much land can only feed 50 percent of the nation's current 
population, and the rest of the food must be imported. Currently 
the annual per-capita consumption of wheat is at least 230 kg, 
and the entire nation's annual consumption of wheat is 13 
million tons. 
  If we accept the Ministry of Agriculture's statistic that 10 
million tons of wheat was produced last year, Iran is currently 
faced with a shortage of 3 million tons of wheat, which is 
imported using foreign exchange resources. 
  If we assume that per-capita consumption will remain fixed 
over the next 20 years, then at the end of that time with a 
population of 120 million the country will need 27 million tons 
of wheat. Even if the area of arable land is not reduced, Iran 
will be short 14 million tons of wheat. 
  If the price of wheat remains at its current level of $250, 
about $4 million of the nation's foreign exchange credits will 
be needed annually just to import wheat. 
  The minister of agriculture said in this regard: It cannot 
be 
predicted when the nation will become self-sufficient in wheat 
production. 


