BFN 

  [Excerpts] [Announcer] In the war in Rwanda, a few hours 
apart, the announcements have come of two massacres targeting 
ecclesiastics: Seven priests were killed in the district of 
Nyamirambo in Kigali, along with several dozen civilians who had 
placed themselves under their protection. We return to this 
massacre in a few moments with the spokesman of the UNAMIR -- 
the United Nations Assistance Mission in Rwanda. The massacre 
was carried out in a government-controlled zone. 
  A few hours earlier the RPF [Rwandan Popular Front] radio 
station announced the killing of 13 ecclesiastics, carried out 
by members of the RPF. Among the victims were the archbishop of 
Kigali, the chairman of the Bishops' Conference, and the bishop 
of Byumba. Ghislaine Dupont: 
  [Dupont] Yes, according to the version supplied by the RPF, 
the 13 ecclesiastics had been placed under the protection of 
eight rebel soldiers after the fall of Kabgayi. Four of these 
bodyguards, apparently convinced that the priests took part in 
massacres of their families, decided to execute the 
ecclesiastics. When the bodies were discovered, the other 
bodyguards -- who thus are reported not to have taken part in 
the murder -- killed one of the rebel bodyguards. The other 
three are reported to have fled. The RPF radio says that the 
guards on the run are being hunted and when they are found they 
will be tried by a military tribunal. However, there is one 
unknown detail in this version -- the date of these killings has 
not been specified by the Front. [passage omitted] 
  [Announcer] The United Nations announced this morning that 
it 
had learned of another tragedy -- the murder of 7 ecclesiastics 
and 63 civilians in a district of Kigali, the district of 
Nyamirambo, considered to be the bastion of the Hutu militias. 
Christophe Boisbouvier asked UNAMIR Spokesman Major Plante what 
information he had: 
  [Begin Plante recording] Yes, we have very specific 
information from very reliable sources, which does indeed speak 
of killings, a massacre. [passage omitted] 
  [Boisbouvier] Who were these people killed by? 
  [Plante] All the information in our possession now appears 
to 
indicate that it was armed civilians. 
  [Boisbouvier] Are you able to enter this district? 
  [Plante] Absolutely not. This district is more or less the 
most dangerous one in Kigali, if not the whole of Rwanda. 
[passage omitted] [end recording] 
  [Announcer] The fighting is very fierce, to such an extent 
that a shell exploded this morning on one of the floors of the 
UN headquarters. There were no casualties. [passage omitted] 

