CSO 

<F P=106> [Report by RABOCHAYA TRIBUNA correspondent Georgiy </F>
Dorofeyev: "The Energy Crisis. Let Us Remember the Power of 
Wind"] 
  [Text] The Slavyanskiy Plant of High-Voltage Towers has put 
into production wind-driven power-generating systems. It is 
currently completing the first order placed by Wind-energo, a 
joint Ukrainian-American enterprise, for 50 systems, which will 
be incorporated into the power-generation system of Crimea. The 
first three systems are already undergoing testing, and the rest 
are coming up. 
  One such system, set up in a steppe, coastal, or mountain 
area where the average daily wind force reaches 5 meters a 
second, produces 1,500-1,700 kw-hours of power a month; an 
alternative method of production would have required 600-700 kg 
of coal or 150-170 kg of diesel fuel. 
  It is easy to calculate what kind of economy 50 such systems 
will deliver. Wind-driven power-generating systems means power 
generation without smog, high culture, and a clean environment. 
  It is not accidental that other organizations have also 
become interested in the production of alternative 
power-generation systems. The plant recently received another 
order for 350 such systems. They can work either as part of a 
grid or autonomously, for individual use. Naturally such systems 
will be in great demand among farmers, members of cooperatives, 
and on collective farms located far from major consumer power 
grids. A rival to fuel-based power generation is being born. 

