BFN 

  [Text] The Eastern Telecommunications Philippines Inc. 
(ETPI) has announced its participation in the strategic 
Fiber-optic Link Around the Globe (Flag) cable system. 
  The digital fiber-optic cable system will span the Pacific 
Rim, the Middle East, and Europe. 
  Construction and maintenance of the major cable system will 
begin in June 1994 and will be completed by the end of 1996. It 
will cost $1 billion. 
  ETPI General Manager Antonio M. Urera said the firm's 
participation in the global cable system will enhance its 
capabilities to bring state-of-the-art telecommunications to the 
country . 
  It will also expand its international gateway facility 
(IGF), 
the country's second which started operations in 1990. ETPI's 
IGF is the subject of a Supreme Court case filed by Philippine 
Long Distance Telephone Co. (PLDT), which is opposing the firm's 
entry into the lucrative gateway service. 
  Talks of an out-of-court pact between the two parties have 
been initiated, but these have stalled as PLDT has taken a 
contrary position. 
  ETPI also operates one of the world's largest cable stations 
-- the Currimao Cable Landing Station in Ilocos Norte -- as well 
as cable systems to Okinawa, Singapore, and Hong Kong. 
  Flag will link Japan, Korea, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Malaysia, 
Thailand, India, United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia, Egypt, 
Italy, Gibraltar, and the United Kingdom. 
  Participants in Flag have been nominated as the key 
representatives of the telecommunications industry in their 
countries. 
  Other members of the Flag cable consortium include 
International Digital Corp. of Japan, Korea Telecoms, Hong Kong 
Telecom, Telekom Malaysia, Communications Authority of Thailand, 
PT Indosat of Indonesia, VTN of India, SaudiTel, ETISALAT of 
UAE, GenTel Cairo of Egypt, ItalCable of Italy, and MCL of the 
UK. 

