BFN 

  [Text] Information Minister Michel Samahah received U.S. 
Ambassador to Lebanon Mark Hambley in his office today. They 
discussed the general political situation in Lebanon and the 
Middle East peace talks. They exchanged views on current media 
issues. Minister Samahah described the meeting as very friendly, 
noting that the ambassador expressed support for the Lebanese 
Government's course. Samahah said: 
  [Begin recording] [Samahah] We exchanged views on current 
media issues, the political situation in the country, and the 
Middle East negotiations cosponsored by the U.S. Government and 
Russia. The negotiations are continuing in various forms in 
Washington. Regarding the media issue, the ambassador asked 
about latest developments. We had a quiet discussion on the 
issue. The ambassador showed complete understanding of the 
Lebanese Government's measures. He encouraged the government's 
efforts to apply the law, respect the principles of the 
Constitution and freedoms, put things in order through the 
measures, bylaws, the amendment of Decree No. 104, the audio and 
visual media law, and the inclination toward plurality through 
the Cabinet's instructions to the committee tasked with 
preparing the draft media law. The ambassador showed full 
understanding in his response to these measures. The atmosphere 
of the meeting was very friendly, almost [as heard] supportive 
of the government approach and measures that emphasize 
maintaining the institutions and homeland and implementing the 
law. [end recording] 

