BFN 

  [Text] Hendaye, France, April 22 (AFP) -- Trawlermen in 
southwest France agreed Friday [22 April] to halt their anchovy 
expeditions for the time being, ending a week-long "anchovy war" 
with Spain, a regional official told AFP. 
  The trawlermen accepted a seven-point agreement proposed by 
the regional governor which gives them a special monthly 
unemployment benefit of 4,500 francs (775 dollars) until they 
resume anchovy fishing in June. 
  Some of the fishermen complained about being paid a welfare 
benefit "when we only want one thing, to work." 
  The ships will continue to fish for white fish and an agreed 
400 tonnes of anchovies, according to a statement issued 
Thursday by the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries. 
  The trawlermen had blockaded Thursday the port of Bayonne to 
protest about "discrimination against their right to work" and 
police seized nets from nine French trawlers to keep them from 
sailing, following threats by Spanish vessels to sink any French 
ships trying to catch the fish. 
  The dispute, between 60 Spanish and 12 French vessels, 
centres on their alloted quotas. The French quota is 2,700 
tonnes a year and the Spanish 27,000 tonnes. 
  Violence broke out at the start of the week, with Spanish 
boats from the port of Fuenterrabia attacking French trawlers 
for exceeding their quota, hurling petrol bombs and trying to 
board them. One boat, the Laetitia, was seized and held in 
Fuenterrabia but was returned Friday. 
  The regional government said it will pay 1.2 million francs 
(210,000 dollars) towards repairs of two trawlers damaged during 
the Spanish attack. 

