CSO 

<F P=106> [Article by Oswaldo Buarim, Jr.: "Ideas of the PT's Top Man </F>
in Economics"] 
  [Text] Brasilia -- The potential minister of finance in a 
PT [Workers Party] administration, Deputy Aloizio Mercadante, 
43, was one of the most active coordinators of the party's 
pacification at its latest national convention, which was held 
in Brasilia last weekend. He worked behind the scenes to ensure 
that the PT's radicals would not force inclusion in the 
government program of items such as decreeing a moratorium on 
the foreign debt if Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva is elected 
president of the republic. This week he is accompanying Lula to 
the United States, where they will discuss the party's ideas on 
the economy with U.S. politicians and businessmen, and he 
promises to convey the message that a PT administration will 
want foreign investment in our country but that it will demand 
that the problem of the Third World's indebtedness be dealt with 
politically. "The stands we will present to the bankers are the 
same as those we defend in Congress or at the factory gates." 
  Holding a doctorate in economics from the Campinas PUC 
[Pontifical Catholic University], which is also where the core 
of former Minister Zelia Cardoso de Mello's team came from, 
Mercadante feels that the FHC [Fernando Henrique Cardoso] Plan 
is a "time bomb" that will generate a fiscal, foreign exchange, 
and banking crisis in 1995. According to him, dollarizing the 
economy will make a mess of domestic industry, and the small 
banks will find it hard to survive. In his opinion, the 
electioneering objective behind the plan will make the problem 
of the fiscal deficit worse because Itamar's administration is 
going to spend the money it has and money it does not have to 
get Fernando Henrique Cardoso elected. 
<H5>  Bombs </H5>
  "If dollarization becomes a reality, it will be a fiscal, 
foreign exchange, and banking bomb that is likely to explode in 
1995. The foreign exchange reserves have been artificially 
inflated by the policy on domestic interest rates, with serious 
repercussions on the public sector's indebtedness. The delay in 
foreign exchange payments will encourage imports, harm exports, 
and compromise the trade balance and the balance of payments. 
Conditions in the international economy are also beginning to 
reverse the situation of the past two and a half years, which 
was favorable and made a net inflow of capital into Brazil 
possible. Now we are seeing a flight of capital from Mexico, 
Argentina, Venezuela, and Brazil itself." 
<H5>  Foreign Debt </H5>
  "A very bad agreement was reached. Renegotiation achieved 
some reduction in the amount owed and an extension of repayment 
schedules, but not enough, with the result that the foreign 
exchange crisis may become worse. Creditors will find 
negotiators in the PT, but they will be tough negotiators. We 
are going to politicize and emphasize the issue of the foreign 
debt. Agreement needs to be reached by the next administration, 
since it presumably will be stronger politically and have more 
negotiating strength and credibility, and also because the level 
of reserves required of our country is absolutely unacceptable. 
Brazil has $35 billion in reserves. That is the international 
economy's third-largest trade balance in absolute terms and its 
highest as a percentage of GDP [gross domestic product]." 
<H5>  Inflation </H5>
  "The plan may halt inflation briefly, but I do not see any 
consistency in the proposal because a balanced budget is not 
guaranteed. We have seen a series of mistakes in connection with 
the introduction of the URV [real unit of value], one of which 
is inflation in URV terms that is already contaminating the 
future currency." 
<H5>  Dollarization </H5>
  "The backing for the issue of currency is harmful because 
having parity without convertibility is not safe. In Argentina, 
the market feels secure because there you can exchange pesos for 
dollars. In Brazil, there is no use imagining parity because the 
volume of reserves is insufficient for the remonetization that 
may exist in the economy at the time of stabilization. The 
second problem is that by dollarizing, our country will lose 
control of its own currency. The Central Bank will end up being 
a branch of the U.S. Federal Reserve. In the area of exports, 
our country must realize that it is not Argentina or Chile. We 
are not kiwi producers." 
<H5>  Sectoral Chambers </H5>
  "Separately, they do not solve anything. But they are an 
auxiliary mechanism in stabilization programs because they 
operate as an income policy. In the chamber of the automobile 
industry, there was a reduction in tax rates, profit margins, 
and vehicle prices. The result was that Brazil rose from 12th to 
ninth place among the world's biggest automobile producing 
countries, with record production of 1.3 million vehicles in 
1993--a 30-percent increase over the previous record. In 
addition, over 12,000 new jobs were created, there was a 
21-percent increase in the industry's real wages, and tax 
revenues rose by $2.8 billion." 
<H5>  Predetermined Interest Rates </H5>
  "We suggested this possibility when inflation stood at 16 
percent. Afterward, when prices were deregulated as part of the 
move toward the URV, there was a sudden transfer of income from 
wage earners to the firms. We have suggested that the minister 
initiate a gradual deflation process accompanied by other 
economic measures such as a tax reform, which is essential in 
order to do away with this distorted structure." 
<H5>  Plan and Consequences </H5>
  "If there is dollarization, we will fall into a trap 
carrying 
a very high economic and social cost. The delay in foreign 
exchange payments will harm exports and compromise economic 
growth. Consumption may actually heat up at first because 
inertial inflation will take off from that level. But it will 
straitjacket foreign exchange and make deindustrialization 
worse." 
<H5>  PT Program </H5>
  "We want foreign investments, clear and permanent rules, and 
credibility in relations with businessmen from outside the 
country, but we also want to carry out structural reforms. We 
want to distribute income, power, and knowledge in Brazil." 

