BFN 

  [Text] Kigali, 7 Apr (AFP) -- National radio in the 
neighbouring African states of Burundi and Rwanda broadcast 
appeals for calm on Thursday [7 April] following the death in a 
plane crash of their presidents. UN forces increased their 
patrols here to avert any disturbances, according to a UN 
spokesman who said that the night passed without incident. But 
a group of soldiers stopped a UN patrol on the airport road to 
Kigali, according to a UN spokesman. "But the problem was 
quickly resolved, we are not making an issue of it." 
  According to a Burundian Government spokesman, the Burundi 
capital Bujumbura was also generally calm. 
  Rwandan authorities confirmed Thursday the death of Rwandan 
President Juvenal Habyarimana and Burundian President Cyprien 
Ntaryamira when their plane crashed in Kigali as they were 
returning from a regional summit in the Tanzanian capital aimed 
at settling ethnic strife in their countries. 
  Rwandan Government officials said all 12 people aboard the 
plane died. The other victims were the country's Army chief of 
staff, General Deogratias Nasabimana, four associates of 
President Habyarimana -- a doctor, a political counsellor, a 
security official and a private secretary -- two Burundi cabinet 
ministers and the three French crew members. 
  The cause of the crash was not known, but at the United 
Nations in New York, Rwandan Ambassador Jean Damascene Bizimana 
charged that the aircraft had been hit by rocket fire as it 
prepared to land at Kigali airport. Some witnesses spoke of 
hearing heavy weapons fire near the airport when their French 
Mystere Falcon came down. 

