BFN 

  [Text] Ambassador to the Union of Myanmar [Burma] Wirasak 
Futrakun reported on investment in Burma. He said the situation 
is at a turning point after the Burmese government allowed 
100-percent investment by the private sector instead of 
assigning state enterprises to supervise operations as in the 
past. Besides, he said the Burmese Government has a policy of 
promoting foreign investment, and has announced that foreigners 
can lease from 12,500 to 75,000 rai of land for business 
operations for up to 30 years unconditionally. 
  Reporting on foreign investment, Wirasak said Singapore tops 
the list with investment capital worth U.S. $240 million. The 
United States ranks second with U.S. $210 million. South Korea 
ranks third at U.S. $90 million; Thailand fourth at U.S. $70 
million; the United Kingdom fifth at U.S. $60 million; and Japan 
sixth at U.S. $50 million. Thailand leads other countries, 
however, in fishing and logging sectors. Anyway, the Burmese 
Government has finally enacted a law banning logging by private 
companies and prohibiting log exports from the country. Burma 
has also banned exports of marine life. It has encouraged 
foreigners to set up sawmills, furniture, and plywood factories. 
  The ambassador said the Burmese Government has opened 
bidding 
for five plywood factories. More than 30 foreign companies, 
including those from Thailand, tendered for concessions. 
Singapore and Korean companies won the bidding for plywood 
factories. Thai companies have won bids to open furniture 
factories. Wirasak said Thai businessmen should form groups to 
better compete with other countries, especially in the hotel and 
tourism sectors where Singapore is keen and has substantial 
capital for investment. He said two Thai companies had won 
concessions for tin and coal mining. The Phadaeng Group, Loxley, 
and Siam Cement Group are considering investment or joint 
investment in other businesses. 

