Language: <F P=105> Romanian </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] The AFP news agency carries an item transmitted 
from Bucharest reporting that on 14 February in Craiova the 
police arrested Nicolae Andrei, a Romanian journalist, the 
author of certain news articles published in December 1993 which 
are offensive to President Ion Iliescu. AFP names the police 
press office as its source. 
  In connection with that case, AFP also cites the statement 
of 
Petre Mihai Bacanu, the chairman of the Romanian Journalists' 
Association, in which Bacanu says, quote, it is an unprecedented 
case after the 1989 December revolution, that a harmless article 
should trigger such a harsh reaction, unquote. 
  Related to this case, the press office of the Police General 
Inspectorate wishes to point out the following things: 
  Investigating the daily CUVINTUL SECURITATII [THE WORD OF 
SECURITATE], which is written by the journalists of the review 
CONFLICT, formerly bearing the name CARTEL, it was found that 
some of its items have a character that offends certain 
political personalities. Thus, the contents of two items titled 
"The Tale of the Pig -- A Christmas Fairy Tale" [Povestea 
porcului -- un basm de Craciuni] and "The Story of the Animal" 
[Povestea animalului] are obviously offending Romania's 
president and carry all the elements necessary for them to be 
regarded as the infraction of offending the authorities, which 
is punished by Article 238, Paragraph 1, of the Penal Code. 
  Despite the fact that the two items were signed with the 
pseudonyms Santa Claus and Veterinary Doctor, as a result of the 
steps that were taken, their author could still be identified as 
Andrei Nicolae, aged 31, a technical-high-school graduate, 
currently a journalist with the aforementioned publication. He 
lives in the village of Cosoveni, in Dolj County. Setting out 
from available evidence the police bodies decided to place him 
under arrest and, on the basis of the suggestion of the police, 
the state attorney's office functioning at the Dolj County Court 
issued a warrant for preventive arrest over a period of 30 days. 
  Investigations are still underway, concludes the communique 
issued by the press office of the Police General Inspectorate. 

