Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] Hong Kong, March 17 (AFP) -- China has strongly 
denied to a United Nations official that its security forces 
committed acts of piracy against commercial shipping in the 
South China Sea. "They do not accept that there have by any 
attacks (on shipping) by units belonging to the government," 
Thimio Mitropoulos of the UN's International Maritime 
Organization (IMO) told reporters Thursday. He said the 
officials he met in Beijing early this week insisted that if 
commercial shipping had been intercepted by Chinese security 
forces, it was only in the normal course of law enforcement, 
including anti-smuggling efforts. 
  Mitropoulos is in East Asia on a fact-finding mission ahead 
of a meeting of the IMO's marine safety committee, which he 
chairs, to discuss an upsurge of piracy in the South China Sea. 
During his stay in Hong Kong, the British administration gave 
him a list of nearly 100 reported attacks on shipping, many of 
them apparently committed by renegade Chinese naval and police 
units. 
  In Beijing, the official PEOPLE'S DAILY newspaper said China 
was drawing up strict guidelines for its maritime security 
forces to curb what it called the "chaotic state of some 
anti-smuggling units." But Mitropoulos said his hosts in China 
-- including the foreign and public security ministries -- never 
told him that new rules were in the pipeline. 
  Mitropoulos was proceeding to Manila on Thursday to continue 
his research before heading back to IMO headquarters in London. 

