BFN 

  [Text] Hanoi, June 3 (AFP) - Vietnam has stepped up its 
fishing activities around the disputed Spratly Islands over the 
past 18 months, under the "devoted" protection of the Vietnamese 
coast guard, the army newspaper reported Friday. QUAN DOI NHAN 
DAN said the number of Vietnamese fishing boats had increased 
from 94 to 150 since the beginning of last year. It said 
Vietnamese fishermen had shown "great efficiency" in their 
operations around the Spratlys, a South China Sea chain claimed 
wholly by Vietnam, China and Taiwan and in part by the 
Philippines, Malaysia and Brunei. Fishing in the area is now 
the main source of revenue for the residents of Phu Quy island, 
which is outside the Spratly archipelago about 120 kilometres 
(75 miles) off southern Vietnam, according to QUAN DOI NHAN DAN. 
It said coast guard units based on Phu Quy have given local 
fishermen "devoted support" in their trips around the Spratlys. 
In a bid to bolster its claims to the area, the Vietnamese 
government has used tax exemptions to encourage local fishermen 
to operate in the Spratlys. Over the past several months the 
official Vietnamese press -- especially the QUAN DOI NHAN DAN -- 
has run articles on the Spratlys almost daily, in an evident 
attempt to reaffirm Hanoi's sovereignty. Speaking to AFP on 
Friday, the foreign ministry again condemned as "illegal" 
China's awarding of a contract to US-based Crestone Energy Corp. 
for offshore oil drilling in the area. Vietnam previously 
announced the construction of two lighthouses and a fishing port 
on the Spratlys, forerunning infrastructure development on the 
21 islands in the archipelago that are occupied by Vietnamese 
soldiers. 

