Language: <F P=105> Portuguese </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] The Angolan Government and the National Union for 
the Total Independence of Angola [UNITA] may be holding peace 
talks in Lusaka, but inside Angola the UNITA rebels continue to 
resort to force on the ground. Early yesterday morning, UNITA 
took the diamond-rich area of Capaca, 30 km northeast of 
Saurimo, in Lunda Sul Province. Our correspondent reports: 
  Eight civilians were killed and three wounded in an 
(?operation) [words indistinct]. Meanwhile, the Angolan Armed 
Forces, FAA, Operational Command has reported that UNITA has 
been moving men and lethal equipment north, south, east, and 
[word indistinct] of Saurimo with a view to securing 
advantageous positions on the ground for subsequent offensive 
operations. 
  Yesterday, our news desk received a FAA Operational Command 
note saying that three people, including two women, were 
abducted [words indistinct] 27 km and 47 km along the roads 
linking Saurimo to UNITA-controlled [names indistinct] 
districts. That note also says that young men in 
UNITA-controlled areas are being forcibly drafted to strengthen 
the Armed Forces for the Liberation of Angola ranks. Despite 
that, the military authorities have described the situation in 
the area as calm. 

