Article   Type:CSO 

  [Text] Germany Army specialists have decided to process 
20,000 
tonnes of explosives into fertilizers. The explosives were used 
in mortar and missile rounds that were inherited from the army 
of the former GDR. 
  The explosives (nitrocellulose, nitroglycerine, and 
dinitrotoluene) will be subjected to microbiological processing 
and transformed into fertilizers. The mortar rounds are being 
dismantled at the Spreewerk Luebben plant located southeast of 
Berlin. The explosives are placed in a solution and "cooked" by 
chemical hydrolysis, a process that renders the solution 
nonexplosive and reduces the material to microbe-sized morsels. 
Dinitrotoluene is additionally "cooked" by alkali fusion at high 
temperature to break down toxic anilines that are a component of 
this explosive. 
  Later the solution, a mixture of cellulose, glycerol, and 
nitric acid, undergoes microbiological processing. A. Dahn, a 
spokesman for Berlin's BS Engineering and Contracting, which 
developed the explosives scrapping process, says the bacteria 
can be found in processed water from treatment plants. A sludge 
containing ammonium nitrate which can be dried, composted, and 
used to fertilize the soil remains as a result of the explosives 
processing process. 
  Although processing explosives is not the simplest and 
cheapest technology to produce fertilizers, it may prove to be 
the best way to dispose of explosives in Germany. Combustion of 
the explosives in furnaces is practically unacceptable because 
it would take approximately five years just to obtain the 
license for this technology. And even if the incinerator's 
technical specifications meet the standards, the cost of just 
the stack scrubbers alone would total approximately 75 million 
marks (&pound;25 million). 
  In Dahn's words, &pound;1.5 million were required to 
develop the 
explosives microbiological scrapping process, and initiating the 
experiments and construction of the explosives scrapping plant 
on an industrial scale will require another &pound;4.7 million. 
He 
estimates the plant will be able to process the entire stockpile 
of explosives in five to 10 years. 
  NEW SCIENTIST, 8 August 1992, Vol. 135, No. 1833, p. 
9. 
<H5>  Tire Scrapping Technology </H5>
  Britain's AEA Technology has developed a cheap technology to 
process old automobile tires into gas, oil, and other products. 
The technology is based on the separation of tire materials 
under the impact of high temperature. The developers say that 
this technology is cleaner and more economical than scrapping 
tires through incineration. 
  A pilot plant has been tested at an AEA Technology test site 
near London. Tires are heated up to 1,080C in a kiln and, 
in the process, two fuels, gas and oil, a substance rich in 
high-quality carbon, and steel were separated. The kiln is 
equipped with a condenser to recover oils and with a gas 
scrubber. 
  AEA Technology sold the first commercial MPD (Multi-Purpose 
Disposer) plant to an American firm that will manufacture and 
sell the plant in North America. 
  Each plant that operates based upon the new technology can 
handle 1,000 kg of tires in less than nine hours. Two hundred 
[as published] plants can be linked up to annually process 
14,000 tonnes. Each tonne of European-produced tires produces up 
to 220 kg of aromatic oils, 240 kg of gas, 420 kg of carbon, and 
160 kg of steel. 
  The carbon-containing element that is formed when the tires 
are scrapped is of sufficiently high quality and calorific value 
that it can be used either in filters or as a fuel. The oil and 
gas can be pumped straight into nearby thermal electric plants 
using pipelines. 
  Its developers state that the MPD system meets all of the 
clean air standards that have been adopted in the countries of 
Europe at the present time and could be licensed in any state of 
the United States, except California, where clean air standards 
surpass world standards at the present time. The unit requires 
relatively simple refinements to meet those standards. 
  NEW SCIENTIST, 29 August 1992, Vol. 135, No. 1836, p. 
21. 
<H5>  Electricity Extinguishes Fires </H5>
  Israeli experts from Ben-Gurion University (Beer-Sheva) have 
developed a fire extinguishing device, the principle of 
operation of which is based on the phenomenon of so-called 
electric wind that is capable of putting out any flame on a flat 
surface, for example, a rug or a pool of burning oil. The device 
has a diameter of one meter and does not have a harmful impact 
on the environment because the use of water, foam, or Halon gas 
are not required for its operation. 
  The device consists of two electrodes--a flat electrode and 
a 
sharp electrode. When voltage is applied to them, an electrical 
field is formed, which is much more dense near the sharp 
electrode. If the field is large enough, atoms near the sharp 
electrode lose electrons which are transformed into 
positively-charged ions and, propelled by the field, move away 
from the sharp electrode, in the process interacting with other, 
neutral atoms. This movement of atoms and positive ions is 
called electric wind. 
  Israeli experts searched for the optimal shape and 
orientation of the sharp electrode to use electric wind to blow 
out fires. The flat burning surface acts as the other electrode. 
A meter-long wire attached to a metal frame and connected to a 
direct current source was utilized as the first electrode. 
  A flame is blown out when the wire is moved by hand over the 
fire at a height of less than 10 cm from the surface at a rate 
of approximately one meter per second. The electric wind 
separates the flames from the burning material and rapidly cools 
the material below its ignition temperature. 
  The developers say that the fire extinguishing device should 
be very cheap because it is manufactured from simple components 
and has low energy consumption. 
  Tel-Aviv's Spectronix is developing a commercial version of 
the device. It is possible that production of the new device 
will begin in several months. 
  NEW SCIENTIST, 15 August 1992, Vol. 135, No. 1834, p. 
20. 

