BFN 

  [Text] His Majesty King Husayn has reiterated Jordan's 
commitment to the peace process. Jordan is looking for a viable 
peace under a state of affairs different from what has prevailed 
so far. We have to band together as never before to cope with 
all eventualities, his majesty said. We have been under 
sustained pressure, not least due to our advocacy of democracy, 
shura, and the individual's right to help fashion his future. 
In our opinion, this is the only road to stability and Arab 
strength. 
  Interviewed by the Paris-based magazine AL-SIYSAH 
AL-DUWALIYAH, his majesty said that, God willing, Jordan and 
Jordanians shall keep their heads held high and will never bow, 
except to God. We must brace for further pressure, his majesty 
said. 
  His majesty said we in Jordan are determined to preserve the 
unity of all the components of our large family . We mean to 
keep our march moving on the lines of the National Charter, the 
Constitution, democracy, shura, and respect for human rights. 
His majesty said he was worried by the lack of coordination 
among Arab parties, given the state of inter-Arab affairs, which 
lessens our chances of attaining the desired settlement. 
  Israel, he said, has failed to fulfill its duties, and must, 
as an occupying power, be held responsible for a string of 
events, including the burning of the al-Aqsa Mosque and the 
transgressions on Christian holy places. I will do the 
impossible, his majesty said, to make sure that that Jordan 
remains a beacon for the larger Arab world and continues to 
fulfill its role and duty. 

