Language: <F P=105> French </F>
Article Type:BFN 

<F P=106> [Report signed S.D.: "Rapid ASIC Prototyping for Signal </F>
Processing"] 
  [Text] Automatic tools for generating hardware and software 
prototypes for the emulation of specific circuits -- in other 
words, "virtual" ASIC's [Application Specific Integrated 
Circuit] -- are a relatively recent invention. Quickturn Systems 
and PiE Design Systems which have now joined forces under the 
name Quickturn Design Systems, have led the way in this field. 
The British company Inca (purchased last year by Zycad) has 
turned the spotlight on digital signal processing applications. 
Last year at the American DAC show it presented the initial 
results of its work in the development of systems based on 
digital signal processors (DSP's) carried out in the context of 
the European ESPRIT project (footnote 1) (The Retides project. 
Other participants include Philips, Thomson, EDC/Mentor 
Graphics, and the Catholic University of Louvain). Continuing 
with this line of work, Zycad is now bringing to market a family 
of solutions for the rapid prototyping of specific applications, 
christened Paradigm RP. The first model in this family is aimed 
at DSP-based designs. This solution therefore makes it possible 
to test complex designs based on DSP's even before they are 
implanted onto silicon. These designs have a degree of 
complexity ranging from 30,000 to 120,000 gates or more and 
clock speeds in excess of 10 MHz (usually from eight to 15 MHz, 
although 20 MHz may be possible in some cases). 
<H5>  Emulation Based on FPGA's [Fixed Programmable Gate Arrays] </H5>
  The Paradigm RP consists of a software component and a 
hardware component. The software component is used to draw, 
partition, compile, check, and debug a logical circuit on a 
predefined and modular programmable hardware architecture. This 
hardware component is built around an emulation mother board 
containing the equivalent of 30,000 gates in the form of Xilinx 
4010-type programmable gate arrays. Interchangeable daughter 
boards can be connected to the main module, enabling 
combinations of FPGA's, RAM, ROM, DSP's, and DSP cores and 
forming a part of the emulated system. The company says that it 
will support a range of daughter boards to cover all of the most 
common DSP applications. 
  Zycad is banking on this product to quickly take shares in 
this rapidly expanding market for DSP applications, more 
precisely in a segment of the DSP market that the American 
consultancy Forward Concepts calls FASIC (Function and Algorithm 
Specific IC) and estimated to be worth $1.2 billion in 1994 and 
$3 billion by 1997. In addition, Zycad specializes in logical 
simulation accelerators, fault simulation, and VHDL [Very High 
Description Language] simulation. 

