CSO 

  [Text] Disqualification for holding any public service 
position, employment, or commission for 20 years was ordered by 
the Office of the Attorney General of the Republic [PGR] against 
PJF [Federal Judicial Police] ex-Commander Salvador Peralta 
Perez, Deputy Commander Daniel Zarate Rodriguez, and ex-agents 
Edgard Antonio Garcia Davila and Cesar Perez. They were found 
administratively guilty of collusion: the second-named, with the 
Arellano Felix brothers' cartel, and the other three, with the 
cartel of Joaquin Guzman Loera ("El Chapo") Guzman. 
  The department added that Garcia Davila is subject to a 
criminal suit brought against him in Guadalajara, for the crimes 
of clandestine smuggling of firearms, arms collection, improper 
exercise of public service, and bribery. The decision regarding 
his sentence is still being awaited. 
  As for Zarate Rodriguez, Cesar Perez, and Peralta Perez, 
they 
are being held in the Cereso [Social Rehabilitation Center] in 
Guadalajara, Jalisco, subject to criminal proceedings in the 
same city for the offenses of criminal association and bribery. 
The latter are in the forms of processing, packing, 
transporting, selling, purchasing, and trafficking in cocaine, 
as well as obstructing the administration of justice. Added to 
the case against Zarate Rodriguez is the crime of influence 
peddling. These penalties were ordered based on the Federal Law 
on Responsibilities of Public Servants. When the administrative 
liability of the aforementioned subjects was investigated and 
fully proven, the PGR imposed the disqualification on them, 
barring them from holding any public service position, 
employment, or commission in the country for 20 years. This is 
the most severe administrative penalty stipulated in the 
aforementioned legislation. 

