BFN 

<F P=106> [Statements by King Husayn and President Bill Clinton during </F>
a news conference with unidentified correspondents at the White 
House on 22 June -- recorded, in English] 
  [Text] [Clinton] First, I would like to welcome King 
Husayn back to the White House and to say how very much I 
support his courage and vision in renewing his efforts to make 
peace with Israel. I want to reaffirm the support of the United 
States for a comprehensive settlement in the Middle East, 
including the Syrian track, and we will do whatever we can to 
keep those things going. And this remains a very important 
priority for me and for our administration, and I'm very 
encouraged by where we are now in the whole process, and 
especially by the efforts that King Husayn has made. And I'm 
looking forward to having a chance to discuss that with him. 
  [Correspondent] What are the chances, Mr. President and King 
Husayn, of a trilateral summit between you two and Prime 
Minister Rabin? 
  [Husayn] I don't think it is something that has been 
discussed as yet. But in the future [words indistinct]. 
  [Correspondent] Your Majesty, are you thinking of separate 
peace with Israel? 
  [Husayn] I'm thinking of the beginning of serious 
negotiation on the agenda that was ratified here in Washington 
as rapidly as possible, and this is what we expect at the [word 
indistinct] and the coming period. But beyond that we certainly 
would share with the President our hope that we will have a 
comprehensive peace in the entire region. 
  [Correspondent] Your Majesty, according to the World Bank 
report, the economic conditions in Jordan are improving. Will 
this translate into funds and assistance? How do you anticipate 
that the United States will look into that [words indistinct] 
the improved conditions in addition to what the World Bank has 
said that you are doing great to the economic (?situation)... 
  [Husayn, interrupting] Well, we hope that amongst the many 
results of achieving a just, comprehensive peace in the region 
will be a change in the quality of life of people in the region 
as a whole. So, without entering into any detail in that 
regard, I believe that, obviously, that area will be addressed 
in terms of the entire region and the opportunities that peace 
offers, when it comes, are tremendous. 
  [Correspondent] Thank you. 

