Language: <F P=105> Arabic </F>
Article Type:BFN 

<F P=106> [Report by 'Adnan Husayn: "With Announcement of Velayati </F>
Visit to Baghdad, Tehran Puts Pressure on Iraqi Opposition To 
Freeze Its Activities"] 
  [Text] London -- Iraqi opposition sources have said that 
the Iranian Government has in recent weeks intensified pressure 
on the Iran-based Iraqi opposition movements to freeze their 
activities in preparation for a visit Iranian Foreign Minister 
'Ali Akbar Velayati is scheduled to make to the Iraqi capital 
soon. 
  The sources -- which are close to Iraqi Shiite movements 
which have offices and camps in Iran -- revealed that the 
Iranian authorities have banned these movements from carrying 
out any military activities across the border. They added that 
the measures included the movements' main offices in Tehran, 
Ahvaz, and Khorramshahr in the Khuzestan region (Arabistan) 
along the border with Iraq. 
  The sources in question told AL-SHARQ AL-AWSAT that the 
Iranians have substantially reduced the facilities they have 
provided to these movements over the past 15 years. In this 
connection they cited the withdrawal of 23 Iranian vehicles 
placed at the disposal of the Tehran-based Supreme Assembly of 
the Islamic Revolution in Iran, which is led by Muhammad Baqir 
al-Hakim. 
  The sources say that al-Hakim is alarmed at Iranian actions 
designed to put pressure on the Iraqi opposition to freeze its 
activities, while Baghdad openly continues to support the 
Iranian opposition operating from inside Iraqi territory. 
  Baghdad announced that early in the month Mojahedin-e Khalq 
carried out military exercises, using heavy weapons, in Iraqi 
areas bordering Iran. And Iraqi media services published a 
report -- with pictures -- about a meeting between Iraqi 
President Saddam Husayn and Mas'ud Rajavi, leader of the Iranian 
opposition movement. 
  Sa'd 'Abd-al-Majid al-Faysal, under secretary at the Iraqi 
Foreign Ministry, visit the Iranian capital last week. He held 
five days of talks with Iranian Foreign Ministry officials. The 
talks centered on the outstanding problems between the two 
countries from the eight-year war (1980-1988) between them. 
Especially the issues of prisoners, border demarcation, and 
regulating navigation in Shatt al-'Arab, in addition to the 
problem of the Iraqi aircraft that flew to Iran during the 
Kuwait liberation war in 1991 and which Tehran has refused to 
return to Baghdad. 
  Meanwhile press reports published in Baghdad and Tehran 
spoke 
of the two sides' failure to secure solutions to these problems 
during the Iraqi official's visit to the Iranian capital. The 
announcement by Iranian Deputy Foreign Minister Mahmud Va'ezi 
last Thursday during his visit to Germany that Minister Velayati 
will visit Baghdad soon is an indication that great strides have 
been+made in the endeavors to normalize Iraqi-Iranian relations. 
Because that visit will be the first to Baghdad by an Iranian 
official at this level since the downfall of the Shah's regime 
early in 1979. In this context the information obtained by 
AL-SHARQ AL-AWSAT from opposition organizations very close to 
Iran confirms that Tehran and Baghdad have agreed to upgrade the 
diplomatic representation between them to ambassadorial level. 
And that the two capitals are currently considering naming 
their ambassadors -- which is expected to be announced on the 
eve of or during Velayati's visit to Baghdad. 

