BFN 

  [Text] Beijing, April 21 (AFP) -- China dismissed Thursday 
suggestions that the 12-year jail term handed down to Hong Kong 
journalist Xi Yang might further sour relations with Britain or 
the United States. 
  British Ambassador to China Sir Robin McLaren recently urged 
Beijing to show clemency in Xi's case, while the U.S. Consulate 
in Hong Kong strongly criticised the severity of the sentence. 
  "The case of Xi Yang is an internal affair of China and has 
nothing to do with Sino-British ties," Foreign Ministry 
spokesman Wu Jianmin said. He also flatly rejected any 
suggestion that Xi's sentence could further harm China's chances 
of having its most favoured nation (MFN) trading status with the 
United States renewed in June. 
  Xi's case is a criminal issue, while MFN is a purely 
economic 
one, Wu said, stressing that "both cases are totally irrelevant 
to each other." Washington has made MFN renewal conditional on 
progress in human rights in China. 
  Xi, a China-born journalist working for the Hong Kong 
newspaper Ming Pao, was secretly tried in March for allegedly 
stealing state secrets. His appeal against the 12-year sentence 
was rejected last Friday, angering Hong Kong journalists and 
raising concerns about local press freedoms after the British 
colony reverts to China in 1997. 
  "The trial and sentence of Xi Yang was carried out strictly 
in line with China laws," Wu said. "The case has nothing to do 
with confidence in Hong Kong." 

