BFN 

  [Text] Arusha, Tanzania, April 23 (AFP) -- Rwandan rebels 
declared a unilateral ceasefire from midnight (2100 GMT) Monday 
[25 April] ahead of peace talks to open here later Saturday, but 
said it would only hold if the government agreed to end ethnic 
bloodletting. A "unilateral declaration of ceasefire" signed by 
rebel Rwanda Patriotic Front chairman Alexis Kanyarengwe and 
issued in this northern Tanzanian town blamed the massacres of 
tens of thousands of Rwandans on the "presidential guard, armed 
civilians and militias." 
  It called for a "cessation of hostilities" to get food and 
medicine to tens or possibly hundreds of thousands of displaced 
people and "bring this conflict to a peaceful settlement." 
  The death of President Juvenal Habyarimana in a mysterious 
April 6 plane crash triggered an ethnic bloodbath and rekindled 
the three-year civil war. 
  The rebel declaration said the ceasefire would be 
conditional 
on the government forces "controlling all killings and acts of 
violence in areas under their control within 96 hours of the 
coming into force of this declaration." Another condition was 
that the government forces accept an international inquiry into 
the killings and allow those found responsible to be punished. 
  It also made the end of fighting dependent on the government 
forces agreeing to joint security patrols with the rebels to 
stop atrocities. 
  It also said the government must agree to joint control of 
the airport and safe corridors for humanitarian aid. 

