Language: <F P=105> Russian </F>
Article Type:CSO 

<F P=106> [INTERFAX report: "Estonia Is Doubling Its Exports and </F>
Redirecting Its Trade to the West"] 
  [Text] Estonia, a Baltic republic with a population 
of 1.5 million, ended the year of 1993 with a negative balance 
of 1.052 billion kroon--more than 75 million dollars--in foreign 
trade. 
  In spite of this, exports were almost double the 1992 figure 
and amounted to 11.575 billion kroon (the exchange rate of the 
Estonian kroon at the end of 1993 was 13.56 kroon to the U.S. 
dollar). Imports, according to the Estonian Department of 
Statistics, were approximately 1.5 times as high as in 1992 and 
reached 12.627 billion kroon. 
  Experts predict that exports and imports of goods in 1994 
will amount to approximately 20 billion kroon each, with a 
minimal positive balance. 
  According to specialists in the Estonian Ministry of 
Economics, foreign trade with the CIS countries, which 
previously exceeded 50 percent of the total, decreased to 25 
percent in 1993 when Estonian industry was redirected toward the 
Western market. 
  Estonia's main trade partner in 1993 was Finland, which 
accounted for 24.1 percent of all foreign trade, followed by 
Russia--21.7 percent, Sweden--9 percent, and Germany--7.7 
percent. Finland also took the lead among importers--37.6 
percent, followed by Russia--12.2 percent, Germany--9.1 percent, 
Sweden--8.6 percent, and Switzerland--5.7 percent. Food products 
were predominant in exports and imports, representing 23 percent 
and 14.1 percent of the respective totals. 
  According to the forecasts of specialists from the Economics 
Institute of the Estonian Academy of Sciences, the production 
growth that was recorded in Estonian industry starting in March 
1993 will continue in 1994. The gross national product in 1993 
was equivalent to 20.9 billion kroon, or 6.7 billion kroon above 
the indicator for the previous year. Experts expect the GNP to 
reach 30.4 billion in 1994. 
  Specialists in the Estonian Ministry of Economics believe 
that industrial production will grow primarily as a result of 
foreign investments. Whereas the amount invested in industry in 
1993 was around 2.5 billion kroon, the indicator in 1994 will 
exceed 4 billion (Estonia's foreign debt reached 109 million 
dollars in 1993). Specialists in the Estonian Ministry of 
Economics feel that the growth of investments will depend on 
programs for the revitalization of Western capital investments 
and laws to stimulate business. 
  Teet Rajasalo, the leading specialist at the Economics 
Institute, feels that genuine economic growth can be expected in 
1995. In his opinion, the rate of inflation in the country will 
decline gradually. According to preliminary data, inflation 
reached 30 percent in 1993, this year it could drop to 25 
percent, and in 1995 it could be as low as 15-20 percent. 

