BFN 

<F P=106> [By Sofia Wu] </F>
  [Text] Taipei, March 29 (CNA) -- Taiwan will send 
representatives to a United Nations-sponsored meeting on illicit 
trade and consumption of endangered animals schduled to be held 
in Beijing in May, a government official said Tuesday [29 March]. 
  ``We'll only attend the non-government organization (NGO) 
sessions of the UN's Convention on International Trade in 
Endangered Species (CITES),'' said Huang Ying-jay, a department 
chief at the Council of Agriculture (COA). 
  The NGO sessions are open to non-CITES members. Taiwan is 
not a member of the UN wildlife conservation organization. 
  The 16-18 May CITES meeting will focus on how to eliminate 
the use of bear bile in Chinese medicines, Huang said. Several 
bear species native to Asia face the threat of extinction. 
  ``We'll detail our conservation programs for indigenous 
Taiwan bears and other endangered wild animals at the NGO 
sessions,'' Huang explained. He added that Taiwan will not send 
representatives to a CITES meeting on illicit flora trade 
scheduled for 16-19 May in Mexico. 
  Taiwan for the first time attended the NGO essions held in 
Geneva earlier this month in connection with a CITES Standing 
Committee meeting. It also managed to escape immediate CITES 
trade sanctions for its alleged failure to stamp out tiger bone 
and rhino horn trade. 
  The UN organization agreed to give Taiwan more time to 
improve its wildlife conservation measures, and will decide 
whether to impose trade sanctions on Taiwan in November, when 
all CITES members will meet. 
  The United States has agreed to follow the CITES decision 
and 
wait for some time before deciding whether to retaliate against 
Taiwan in accordance with the [word indistinct] legislation 
meant to protect wildlife. 
  The U.S. has also asked Taiwan to send reports on its 
conservation programs for some Asian indigenous animals, 
including black bears and orangutans, before 25 April, the 
sources said. 

