BFN 

  [Text] The Defense Ministry press service has issued a 
statement which says: As the process of conflict settlement and 
the return of refugees to Abkhazia seems increasingly feasible, 
armed units of Abkhaz separatists and their loyal propagandists 
are stepping up their activity. They are using any means to 
rekindle the atmosphere of irreconcilability between the 
Georgians and the Abkhaz. 
  It is surprising that the Abkhaz separatists' armed 
provocations against the defenders of Georgian villages of the 
Kodori gorge and the Inguri river are followed by prompt and 
negative reaction from the Russian media, which invariably 
accuse the Georgian side of violating the agreement. That is 
how it was on 28 April, 10 May, 20 May and also today, 30 May, 
when, following a massive week-long artillery attack by the 
Abkhaz separatists on villages in the Kodori gorge, the Russian 
media, quoting Abkhaz information sources, reported to the world 
community that Georgian artillery was shelling Abkhaz positions 
in Kodori. To put it mildly, we do not understand this bias 
displayed by Russian colleagues. 
  The press service of the Ministry of Defense of the Republic 
of Georgia categorically denies this new disinformation 
disseminated by the Russian media and calls on the colleagues to 
report events in an objective and unbiased manner. 

