Language: <F P=105> German </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] Berlin/Bonn (DPA) -- In large-scale raids against 
right-wing extremists mainly in Berlin, Brandenburg, and 
Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania, police today seized evidence. 
Flats in Lower Saxony and North-Rhine Westphalia belonging to 
members of the "Direct Action/Middle Germany" group were also 
searched and the contents of post office boxes were seized. 
According to the security services, the organization pursues 
right-wing extremist and anticonstitutional goals. 
  The group emerged from the "Middle German Youth Association" 
(FMJ), which originally saw itself as a "mass organization" to 
complement the "cadre and elite party" "Nationalist Front" (NF). 
The NF was banned on 26 November 1992. According to the 
Interior Ministry in Bonn, the activities of "Direct Action" are 
particularly concentrated in Brandenburg, where it has about 100 
members. 
  German Interior Minister Manfred Kanther said in Bonn the 
investigation demonstrated once again that the German Government 
was determined to fight extremism in close cooperation with the 
federal states. People who engaged in extremist violence and 
caused incitement to racial hatred would be countered with the 
full force of the law. 
  The interior senate administration [Interior Ministry] said 
written documents and diskettes were found in Berlin during the 
search instigated by the state of Brandenburg and the city of 
Berlin. The documents are said to contain information regarding 
the group's organization and membership. A spokesman for the 
State Criminal Investigations Office said 43 items of written 
propaganda material were also seized in Brandenburg. The 
searches in Mecklenburg-West Pomerania focused on the town of 
Neubrandenburg. 

