Language: <F P=105> Thai </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] The deputy public health minister, Dr. Udomsin 
Sisaengnam, disclosed that the National AIDS Committee under the 
chairmanship of Prime Minister Chuan Likphai approved the test 
of a candidate vaccine [preceding two words in English] on 
ordinary people, who are listed as a low-risk group, to monitor 
any reaction and immunity change before the vaccine will be 
tested on HIV-infected patients. The approval was granted 
during a meeting on 14 February. 
  The deputy minister said that the vaccine test must be 
conducted in line with the rules and regulations set by the 
World Health Organization and will take time. 
  He denied the report on herbal medicine in Africa being used 
as an effective cure for AIDS, and said such rumors are harmful 
and will encourage promiscuity. 
  Officials in charge of the test project said that the Thai 
Red Cross Society will receive applications from volunteers who 
wish to join the project at the middle of this month. 
Volunteers must not be from a high-risk group or be 
HIV-infected. The vaccine test will not be conducted with 
pregnant women. 
  The U.S.-made vaccine is named (Cinvac). The test consists 
of three injections for a period of six months. The second 
injection is made one month after the first and the last at the 
end of the sixth month. 

