Language: <F P=105> Georgian </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] Paris, 26 Jan -- A service in memory of the late 
Zviad Gamsakhurdia was held on Sunday at St. Nino's Georgian 
church in Paris. 
  Iberia's own correspondent reports from Paris that the 
service was attended by representatives of the Georgian emigre 
community. Present at the service was Z. Gamsakhurdia's son 
Konstantine and his family. 
  After the service, Father Archil read a text which did not 
mention that Gamsakhurdia had committed suicide. "The leader of 
the national movement, Z. Gamsakhurdia, was killed in an act of 
treachery and cruel cynicism," Father Archil pointed out. 
  After the ceremony, Father Archil told the Iberia 
correspondent that it was impossible to establish the fact of 
Gamsakhurdia's suicide. "He was a true Christian and could not 
have killed himself," Father Archil said. 
  In answering the Iberia correspondent's question about the 
place where Z. Gamsakhurdia is buried, Konstantine Gamsakhurdia 
said that the body should be within a 30-km radius of Zugdidi. 
In his opinion, the Georgian authorities are in possession of 
the body and the reports that the village of Jikhaskari is under 
the control of Gamsakhurdia supporters are rumors spread by 
Kremlin agents. In reality, Mkhedrioni units are in the 
village, and they are carrying out a genocide of the Samegrelo 
population, Konstantine Gamsakhurdia pointed out. 
  It should be noted that many representatives of the Georgian 
community in France were opposed to holding the service, since, 
in their opinion, this would cause a deterioration of relations 
with the present authorities in Georgia. 

