BFN 

<F P=106> [Nikolay Lashkevich report: "Socialists Paying Less Than </F>
Capitalists"] 
  [Text] Vilnius -- An analysis of statistics on the social 
situation of the inhabitants of Lithuania, Latvia, and Estonia 
published in the Lithuanian press shows that the worst Baltic 
country to live in is Lithuania and the best is Latvia. 
  The highest minimum wage -- 15 lats or over $26 -- was 
recorded in Latvia. Estonia is next with 300 kroon or over $22, 
and Lithuania is in last place with a mere 50 litai or over $12. 
The differences in average wage in the Baltic countries are 
less pronounced: Latvia leads with over 70 lats or almost $123, 
while the figures for Lithuania and Estonia are respectively 
almost 347 litai or over $88 and 1,165 kroon or almost $86. The 
average pension in Lithuania and Estonia is also virtually half 
that in Latvia. 
  Thus the difference in wages and pensions is still 
considerable and in the coming months this gap in living 
standards could increase even further, because since Lithuania 
introduced a tax innovation -- 18-percent value-added tax -- 
prices of essentials have rocketed. 
  The conclusion for the Lithuanian authorities is a very sad 
one: The market socialism with strong social support constantly 
proclaimed by the ruling party of Algirdas Brazauskas (this 
program helped it to win the elections) has proved to be no more 
than a slogan. Reality tells a different story: The living 
standard lags behind that of the neighboring Baltic republics, 
where power is not in the hands of socialists who are accustomed 
to thinking of themselves as champions of social justice. 

