BFN 

  [Text] TALLINN, Apr 15, BNS -- A new draft legislation 
that was under its second reading in the Estonian parliament 
Thursday [14 April] is expected to ensure more state-backed 
crediting for medium-size and small companies, opposition 
Centrist MP Kalev Kukk said in a press conference. 
  The general framework of the bill comes from Germany's 
experience in supporting its smaller industries, but nothing of 
this bill has been copied or simply taken over, Kukk explained. 
  The bill's main aim is to ensure that small and medium-size 
companies get access to the capital market. Although such 
companies are doing much to vitalize the country's economy, 
hardly anybody is eager to invest money in them. It is hard for 
such companies to get loans from banks and nobody is willing to 
stand as guarantor for their loans, Kukk said. 
  The bill foresees state support for the companies under two 
different schemes: government loans, or the government acting as 
guarantor for the companies' loans. Money for the loans would 
come from the state budget or from the foreign loans provided to 
the country. 
  The parliament today voted down a proposal to allocate 2.5 
percent of the state budget for supporting smaller businesses. 
  Small and medium-size businesses under the draft legislation 
are defined as companies employing no more than 80 and with an 
annual turnover smaller than 15 million kroons (USD about 1.1 
million). 
  The interest rate on loans to be provided to such companies 
should not exceed 7-9 percent, Kukk said, adding that this would 
be possible if the money be taken from non-profit funds. 

