Language: <F P=105> Belarusian </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] On 3 February, the Belarusian Ministry of Foreign 
Affairs held a news conference concerning the results of Deputy 
Foreign Minister Alyaksandr Sychow's visit to Great Britain, 
France, and Germany, which was devoted to the resolution of 
issues concerning assistance to Belarus in dismantling its 
conventional arms. 
  According to the agreement on reducing conventional arms, 
Belarus has to destroy 10 times as many tanks as Great Britain, 
50 times as many as France, and 1.7 times as many as the United 
States. The first stage of this agreement has already been 
carried out; however, some difficulties are expected in the 
implementation of future stages. According to Alyaksandr 
Sychow, the aggravating economic situation in Belarus draws on 
the increase in expenses for the dismantling of military 
equipment. According to economic expert evaluations, Belarusian 
expenditures will amount to about $8 million. According to 
provisions for the first stage [of reductions], Belarus has 
destroyed 645 tanks, 658 armored combat vehicles, and 50 
aircraft. It is still necessary to destroy 1,212 tanks, 566 
combat vehicles, and 80 aircraft. Due to the difficult economic 
situation, the Republic of Belarus is not able to finance these 
projects. Yet, as stated at the news conference, during its 
visit, the Belarusian delegation did not receive any support for 
the resolution of financial problems threatening the dismantling 
of military equipment. The Belarusian delegation informed the 
participants in the agreement on the reduction of conventional 
arms in Europe that the term of this agreement may be broken by 
the Belarusian side. 
  In the near future, a delegation of British, French, and 
German experts is expected to arrive to Belarus to examine the 
situation firsthand. 

