BFN 

  [Text] Kiel (DDP/ADN) -- Schleswig-Holstein is the first 
German state to introduce a halt to deportations for Kurds. 
Interior Minister Hans-Peter Bull accompanied the announcement 
of today's decision by the state government with an appeal to 
all other states to follow this example in view of the dramatic 
increase in human rights violations in Turkey. As the situation 
was not expected to change quickly, Bull also urged German 
Interior Minister Manfred Kanther "to rapidly grant approval for 
a more long-term halt to deportations." The German Government 
must also push for the observance of human rights in Turkey, 
Bull said. 
  The state government's halt to deportations, which is to 
last 
six months, is based on a provision of the law governing 
foreigners under which the Interior Ministry can take this 
action for a maximum of six months if this is imperative for 
reasons relating to international law or on humanitarian 
grounds. The measure is restricted to Kurds from the emergency 
provinces in southeast Turkey and applies only to asylum-seekers 
who are pursuing their case in Schleswig-Holstein. 
  Bull explicitly referred to remarks by German Foreign 
Minister Klaus Kinkel that the human rights situation in Turkey 
is "not satisfactory." He also referred to information from the 
prisoner aid organization, Amnesty International, that the 
Turkish Government is reported to have announced a major 
offensive to destroy the Kurdistan Workers' Party. 

