Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:BFN 

<F P=106> [Report by Vusi Sibisi] </F>
  [Text] The number of people with HIV has been projected at 
more than a quarter of a million by the year 2006 with annual 
AIDS-related deaths climbing to more than 27,000. 
  According to a draft report on the socio-economic impact of 
HIV/AIDS in Swaziland by Alan Whiteside and Greg Wood of 
Capricorn Africa Economic Associates released yesterday, HIV has 
probably spread more rapidly in the Kingdom than anywhere else 
in Africa -- where data is available -- with the possible 
exception of Botswana. 
  The study, commissioned by the Ministry of Economic Planning 
and Development, says the challenge facing the country is that 
of stopping the epidemic from spreading further, "and at least 
to reach the next generation as they grow to maturity and become 
sexually active". 
  According to the three-phased projections -- low, medium and 
high AIDS projections -- over a 12-year period to the year 2005, 
the total number of people with HIV is expected to number 
between 174,629 and 268,379 by the year 2006. And whereas the 
death rate over the projected period would be 10,417 in an 
AIDS-free environment, it has been projected that AIDS-related 
deaths would soar the death rate to 27,495 by the year 2005 with 
HIV population numbering 249,418, according to the draft 
report's high AIDS projection. 
  According to the draft report, more females, 138,235, than 
males, 121,017, would have HIV by the year 2005. This would 
result in new AIDS cases of 25,743 -- 15,890 females and 12,579 
males, during the projected period. 
  The projected total population by the year 2006 is expected 
to be 1,351,000 (658,000 males and 693,000 females) in an 
AIDS-free society. This declines to 1,086,605 (530,131 males 
and 556,474) for the low AIDS projection; 1,061,893 (518,154 
males and 543,739 females) for the medium AIDS projection; and 
1,034,080 (504,677 males and 529,404 females) for the high AIDS 
projection. 
  The draft report points out that the difference increases 
with time due to the expected growth rate in the "no-AIDS 
scenario, and a decline in this rate with AIDS.' "The life 
expectancy for both males and females also decreases with the 
advent of AIDS." 
  The draft report also warns that new AIDS cases, annual HIV 
births and annual AIDS deaths would continue to increase rapidly 
after 2006, noting that projections longer than approximately 12 
years are more difficult to accurately predict. The cummulative 
AIDS deaths would climb to 290,877 -- of which 141,069 would be 
males and 149,807 females -- by the year 2006 for the high AIDS 
projection, says the draft report. 
  The impact of AIDS deaths would slow down economic growth, 
strain the health services and social welfare, affect the 
education system and give rise to orphans. The majority of AIDS 
cases are and would continue to be prevalent in the sexually 
active population who are incidentally also the most 
economically active age group. 
  The study says factors which will probably contribute to the 
rapid spread of HIV-AIDS in Swaziland include migration (both 
internal and international), transport workers, rural/urban 
linkages, poverty, commercial sex workers, the role of women and 
high levels of STD's (sexually transmitted diseases). 
  The draft report notes: "AIDS is largely a sexually 
transmitted disease. People's vulnerability to the virus is 
closely linked to their sexual behaviour. This, in turn, is 
determined by their socio-economic circumstances and social 
behavioural norms. Certain factors may greatly increase 
vulnerability and, as such, increase the potential for disease 
transmission. It is axiomatic that successful intervention will 
not only seek behavioural change, but will also target 
socio-economic factors that are amenable to change. Indeed, this 
may be one of the key points for planners to examine." 

