BFN 

  [Text] In the battlefield in N'dalatando, the troops of 
Jose Eduardo dos Santos' involved in the offensive are not able 
to move or receive supplies. The circle is closing tighter and 
tighter. Yesterday, in a vain attempt to break out, the Futungo 
de Belas adventurers left 10 dead soldiers, 11 60-mm mortar 
shells, and a considerable assortment of war materiel along the 
Beira Alta road. The Luanda air force has not been indifferent 
to this. Yesterday, Jose Eduardo dos Santos' combat aircraft 
raided civilian villages, destroying their farms. Four 
civilians were killed and five others seriously wounded. 
Moreover, Sergeant Antonio Tunguno, who was captured during 
clashes, revealed to the military information services of the 
Armed Forces for the Liberation of Angola [FALA] that South 
African, Portuguese, and Katanga mercenaries are directly 
assisting Luanda in these attacks. 
  Antonio Tunguno said that in the Angolan capital, Luanda, 
Eduardo dos Santos' terrorists are involved in a campaign to 
force the youths to join the People's Armed Forces for the 
Liberation of Angola ranks. To conclude, our reporter Morais 
Abel, who reported this, notes that the FALA Military Command in 
N'dalatando says that N'dalatando will never fall, to either 
land or air offensives. 

