BFN 

<F P=106> [Interview with Talal al-Hasan, minister of state for </F>
foreign affairs, by Sumayyah Ahmad "during the meetings of the 
Arab Foreign Ministers Council at the Arab League headquarters 
in Cairo"-- date not given] 
  [Text] [Ahmad] Why has coordination among the Arab 
countries involved in the peace negotiations stopped? 
  [Al-Hasan] We in Jordan have always advocated coordination 
and consultation with the parties involved in the peace process 
and are dealing with this issue seriously and enthusiastically. 
We hope that this coordination will be enhanced to become an 
established and firm framework, not mere seasonal coordination. 
  [Ahmad] The Syrian foreign minister has stated that the 
April 
meeting will decide whether the negotiations will resume. Is 
this your stance too? 
  [Al-Hasan] We in Jordan are committed to the peace process 
and to any meeting for consultation and coordination in the 
sense that I have defined above. We hope this coordination 
among the Arab countries will be established to reach a positive 
stance that will help to boost the peace process and achieve 
substantial progress in the negotiations. 
  [Ahmad] Will the al-Ibrahimi Mosque massacre have any effect 
on the negotiations when they resume? 
  [Al-Hasan] The massacre has undoubtedly harmed the peace 
process. We hope the international community and the cosponsors 
of the Madrid peace conference, most notably the United States, 
will pressure Israel to cease its arbitrary practices. 
  [Ahmad] How tense are Jordanian-Palestinian relations? 
  [Al-Hasan] Please excuse me from discussing this issue. 
  [Ahmad] But what is Jordan's stance on the recent 
Palestinian 
statement about Jordan's reservations over Resolution 904? 
  [Al-Hasan] Jordan has expressed no reservations about 
Resolution 904 but it has its view on the Jerusalem issue. King 
Husayn contacted some of his brother Arab leaders in Egypt, 
Morocco, Syria, President 'Arafat, and President Clinton before 
the resolution was issued, with the aim of obtaining approval 
for the entire resolution without American reservations. The 
king discussed Jordan's stance on Jerusalem. I have nothing to 
add. 
  [Ahmad] Where have your negotiations with Israel reached? 
  [Al-Hasan] We approved the joint agenda last September 
following the mutual recognition between the PLO and Israel. 
The Jordanian-Israeli agenda includes the principal issues, 
such as the land, borders, water, and refugees. We are 
discussing all the points with the Israeli side but Israel must 
agree to tackle the essential issues through which positive 
progress can be made in the peace process. 
  [Ahmad] Does this mean the negotiations will stall if they 
don't deal with a solution to some of the essential issues? 
  [Al-Hasan] The peace process has achieved many positive 
things but the essential issues must be tackled so that the 
peace process can proceed. 
  [Ahmad] How do you assess Egyptian-Jordanian relations? 
  [Al-Hasan] Relations are good and coordination and 
consultations are proceeding well. We always seek to strengthen 
this coordination. I discussed with my colleague the foreign 
minister and with Prime Minister Dr. 'Atif Sidqi several issues 
of common interest, including the two countries' higher 
committee. 
  [Ahmad] When will the committee meet? 
  [Al-Hasan] The date will soon be agreed through diplomatic 
channels. 
  [Ahmad] What about Jordanian-Gulf relations in light of King 
Husayn's recent visit to some Gulf countries? 
  [Al-Hasan] Our relations with Oman are always excellent and 
unique. Our relations with fraternal Qatar have reverted to 
their normal course. We hope that the positive conditions will 
emerge to return Jordanian-Gulf relations to their former state. 

