Language: <F P=105> Spanish </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] Havana, 4 Mar (PL) -- Osvaldo Martinez, the 
president of the Parliament's economic commission, anticipates 
that the Cuban economy will improve during the second half of 
1994 because of the influence of structural changes in the 
agricultural sector and the positive reaction by some sectors. 
  According to a Radio Rebelde report, Martinez, who is also 
the director of the World Economy Research Center, argued in a 
conference with journalists and students at Havana University 
that the worst was left behind in 1993 and predicted that the 
second half of 1994 will show improvement. 
  Martinez stated that the improvement will become evident 
through a stop in the fall of economic indicators, a trend that 
arose following the collapse of the European Socialist Bloc and 
the Soviet Union between 1989 and 1991, as well as through 
modest increases in some strategic sectors. 
  Martinez added that the consolidation of the Basic 
Cooperative Production Units [UBPC] with slight increases in 
food production and a significant reduction in costs will begin 
to exert a positive influence and so will the financial 
reorganization measures that will be implemented this year. 
  The UBPC operate on state property and are exploited by 
groups of workers who employ production means that were bought 
from the former agricultural-livestock enterprises. The UBPC's 
purpose is based on profitability and economic efficiency. 
  Martinez clarified that the sugar harvest and nickel 
production, whose international prices are starting to pick up, 
will constitute major sources of foreign currency as well as 
modest increases in the sale of pharmaceuticals. 
  Martinez said that the tourism industry, which has 
experienced a steady growth, plays a pivotal role in this 
process and added that this industry is expected to receive 1 
million visitors in 1994 and earn $350 million in net profits. 
  Martinez concluded that these positive factors lead him to 
predict that the national economy will perform better as of the 
second half of 1994. 

