BFN 

<F P=106> [From the "Newsbrief" program] </F>
  [Excerpt] It was announced at midnight that Cuban President 
Fidel Castro will attend the inauguration of President Mandela 
tomorrow. Keith Kendall asked Marques Rodriques, councillor at 
the Cuban Foreign Ministry and presently in Pretoria, why the 
announcement was so late. 
  [Begin recording] [Rodriques] Well, I mean that depends on 
the schedule of President Castro. You know that Cuba is a very 
far country and the president of course has a lot of engagements 
to attend, and that's why it's a normal procedure. 
  [Kendall] This was not for security reasons? 
  [Rodriques] Well, it's part of the procedures for the 
president. (?They) take into consideration the distance between 
Cuba and South Africa, and the engagements of the president. 
  [Kendall] How important for Cuba are ties with the new South 
Africa? 
  [Rodriques] I think this is very important for Cuba. There 
have been long historical relations between Cuba and the 
patriotic forces, and the ANC in South Africa. That's why this 
victory of the democratic forces in South Africa is of a great 
importance for Cuba. We feel very satisfied, we feel a great joy 
towards President Mandela and his post. 
  [Kendall] Are you hoping for close ties with South Africa 
following the inauguration of President Mandela? 
  [Rodriques] Definitely. I mean, it's the express will of our 
government to keep very close ties with the new Government of 
South Africa, and these ties will go from the political field, 
and we are hoping also that we can have very strong ties, from 
the technical point of view, from the commercial point of view, 
and many other fields. We feel very optimistic that this kind 
of relations will become greater. [passage omitted] [end 
recording] 

