BFN 

  [Text] Tallinn, Apr 20, BNS -- Deputy speaker of the 
Estonian parliament, Tunne Kelam, in an interview with BNS today 
said joining the European Union [EU] is what Estonia objectively 
needs to do. 
  "This is an objective direction, because we have no other 
alternative between two different worlds and traditions," he 
said. 
  But he said Estonia's movement in the direction of the EU 
didn't mean turning its back to the East. Kelam said Estonia 
also in the future will be ready for active trade and 
communication with the East. "But at present the question is how 
to make up for the 50-year gap in our relations with the Western 
countries." 
  In addition to the global aspect, the European economic and 
defense organizations are what Estonia hopes will help resolve 
the country's most important security and economic problems, he 
said. 
  Kelam in the interview said that Estonia must not go to 
Europe "as a schoolboy, who unconditionally tries to adjust 
himself to everything that exists." 
  "Estonia is bringing to Europe its experience, a national 
tradition and individuality. We must not loose or underestimate 
these qualities," he said. 
  Kelam pointed out that Estonia can get a very important 
mediator's role in Europe both politically and culturally. 
  "I wouldn't place the accent on the final point of the 
integration with Europe, but on that the beginning of the 
process has been a promising one and we have managed to earn a 
good reputation in Europe," he said. 

