BFN 

<F P=106> [By Sofia Wu] </F>
  [Text] Taipei, April 12 (CNA) -- It is extremely unfair 
for the United States to sanction Taiwan for its alleged 
continued trade in forbidden wildlife products, a Presidential 
Office spokesman said Tuesday [12 April]. 
  "The Republic of China [ROC] has not lagged behind other 
countries in preservation of endangered species," Raymond Tai, 
deputy secretary-general to the president, said after learning 
that U.S. President Bill Clinton issued an order on Monday 
prohibiting import of wildlife species and products from Taiwan 
in retaliation for Taiwan's failure to stop illegal trade in 
rhino horns and tiger bones. 
  "We has made enormous efforts to protect wildlife and have 
launched massive crackdowns on illicit wildlife product trade in 
recent years," Tai stressed. "The U.S. should not have used 
outdated data and photos to back its charges against Taiwan." 
  Tai reaffirmed Taiwan's commitment to stamping out illegal 
wildlife trade, saying the Legislative Yuan will soon pass a 
package of amendments to the wildlife conservation law that 
significantly increase penalties for offenders. 
  Premier Lien Chan also blasted the U.S. sanctions as "unjust 
and unfair," saying the U.S. should take note of Taiwan's 
progress in wildlife conservation and reconsider its decision as 
soon as possible. 
  Lien also ordered the Council of Agriculture (COA) to 
present 
within two weeks a comprehensive program for consolidation of 
rhino horn and tiger bone stocks, crackdown on illicit wildlife 
trade, wildlife product examination and conservation manpower 
training. 
  The COA has set up a special task force to intensify 
crackdowns on wildlife trade. COA officials said the United 
States has agreed to negotiate with Taiwan over wildlife trade 
issues. If the Legislative Yuan can pass the conservation law 
soon, the officials said, the U.S. may shorten the period of 
trade sanctions on Taiwan. 

