Language: <F P=105> Russian </F>
Article Type:CSO 

<F P=106> [Article by Agita Berzinya: "UN Specialists on the Fight </F>
Against Narcotics Will Work in Latvia"] 
  [Text] Riga, 30 January. The UN program mission on 
narcotics control arrived in Riga today. Its visit is tied to 
the creation in Riga of the Baltic Regional Bureau on Narcotics 
Control. Thus Latvia becomes the Baltic Region center in the 
struggle against narcotics. It is proposed that during the visit 
the mission's representatives will meet with members of the 
government and visit the Rindzelskiy Hospital in Tukumskiy 
Rayon, where a regional institution for treating drug addicts 
partly financed by the UN is to be created. The mission's 
specialists will also visit Kleysty, where they will visit a 
breeding kennel where dogs are taught to search for narcotics. 
So far in Latvia only two dogs have been taught to do this. 
  The realization of the UN draft program on narcotics control 
in the Baltic countries has already begun, reported the chief 
narcotics expert of the department of health, Janis Strazdins. 
The 1.3 million U.S. dollars allocated for this will make it 
possible to strengthen customs, the police, and the border 
troops and train associates of toxicology laboratories. 
  In early January the coordinator of the UN program on 
narcotics control and the mission's leader in the Baltic 
countries, John Header, gave the National Coordinating 
Commission and Committee on Narcotics Control, the criminal 
science center, the police department, the border brigade, and 
the customs service of the Republic of Latvia 70 portable units 
to detect narcotic substances. They can be used to detect any 
narcotic substance. They will help laboratories technically 
provide narcotics control. 
  The mission will be in Latvia until 3 February, and then it 
will leave for Lithuania. 

