Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:BFN 

<F P=106> [From the "Focus on Africa" program] </F>
  [Text] The loser in the power struggle following the death 
of President Houphouet-Boigny of Ivory Coast [Cote d'Ivoire], 
Alassane Ouattara, has been having rather a hard time of it. He 
lost out to Henri Konan Bedie. Mr. Ouattara came home at the 
weekend and since his return the government press has been 
hounding and denouncing him. Robin White asked our Abidjan 
correspondent, Ofeibea Quist-Arcton, what the press was saying. 
  [Begin recording] [Quist-Arcton] Harsh words from the new 
director general of FRATERNITE MATIN. He asked whether Alassane 
Ouattara was trying to challenge the authority of the state, 
having accused him of being a threat to public order, and the 
sin or the crime of Mr. Ouattara seems to have been the fact 
that hundreds of his supporters and sympathizers tried to meet 
and greet him at the airport when he came back on Saturday [22 
January] after a three-week absence. But they were prevented 
from doing so because security forces were deployed in great 
number on the road to the airport and, actually, at the airport. 
  [White] What has Ouattara been doing since he got back? 
  [Quist-Arcton] He has been keeping very quiet. We drove to 
his house today to try and see him, and we were told that he was 
willing to take calls from journalists over the phone but 
wouldn't see us face to face. But whilst we were there we 
noticed that normally Ouattara has bodyguards, or at least 
military guards outside his house. All these seem to have 
disappeared and the person who was at the reception desk at the 
front seemed to be either a cook or somebody who worked in the 
house. He was wearing a very formal sort of white jacket. 
  [White] Exactly what has happened to his security? 
  [Quist-Arcton] That is difficult to say. His cousin, Mr. 
Abdoulaye Cisse, said that at about 1245 today the soldiers were 
withdrawn. They were given an order to withdraw and they 
withdrew, and that is all they know about what the authorities 
have done. But he said that they were setting up their own 
security and that the people in the locality, Blokosso, where 
Mr. Ouattara lives in Abidjan, had already sent about 10 young 
men to guard him and that they were trying to work out a team of 
about 25 altogether for his personal security. Mr. Ouattara 
hasn't made any formal comment on the withdrawal of his military 
security. 
  [White] But you guess that Konan Bedie would be pretty happy 
if Ouattara was to leave the country? 
  [Quist-Arcton] Well, I think people say that he feels that 
Ouattara is some sort of political competition because although 
he was brought in a sort of economist who was going to basically 
try and revive Ivory Coast's economy, he soon became a political 
animal and I think that the sort of old politicians, those who 
had waited their time for Houphouet to be out of the limelight, 
feel a bit bitter that this newcomer, or this upstart, or 
Burkinabe as they call him -- because a lot of his enemies say 
that he is not Ivorian at all -- feel that he has tried to 
(?muscle) his way into the political scene, and this is wrong. 
[end recording] 

