BFN 

    [Editorial Report] The following is a compilation of 
reports on drug seizures and arrests related to drug trafficking 
monitored through 23 June. 
<H5>  Argentina </H5>
  On 16 June, the Federal Police dismantled a gang of 
traffickers led by a woman known as "La Cholita." This happened 
during an operation in the city of Salvador de Jujuy. The 
police also seized two kg of very pure cocaine that was to have 
been sold in Buenos Aires, Cordoba, and other major cities. 
(Buenos Aires NOTICIAS ARGENTINAS in Spanish 2206 GMT 16 Jun 94) 
  On 17 June, Federal Police personnel arrested Federal Police 
NCO Teodoro Jesus Navarro and Paraguayan citizens Rodolfo 
Ibarrola and Ruben Taboada who were carrying two kg of very pure 
cocaine. The seizure came during a check on a bus on the 
Panamericana highway in the Buenos Aires District of San Isidro. 
(Buenos Aires NOTICIAS ARGENTINAS in Spanish 2118 GMT 17 Jun 94) 
  The Federal Police have dismantled a powerful gang of 
traffickers that sent cocaine to Europe. The forces seized 210 
kg of very pure cocaine and arrested 30 persons following four 
years of thorough investigation that included seven operations 
in Buenos Aires and abroad. Argentine citizens Juan Carlos 
Rocha, 34, and Luis Horacio Tust, 63, are among the detainees. 
(Buenos Aires NOTICIAS ARGENTINAS in Spanish 1526 GMT 22 Jun 94) 
  The Federal Police have seized an important amount of 
cocaine 
and marijuana and arrested 17 people during operations in many 
parts of the countries in the past few hours. The forces 
arrested two people carrying 4.5 kg of cocaine in Tucuman 
Province. The detainees are members of a gang that brought 
approximately five5 kg of cocaine per month from Bolivia. Moron 
police personnel arrested 10 people and confiscated 2.5 kg of 
cocaine during various operations in the west part of the Buenos 
Aires urban area. Police Precinct No. 48 agents arrested a 
couple carrying 250 grams of very pure cocaine. The Federal 
Police seized 3.8 kg of marijuana and arrested two people in 
Posadas. They also confiscated 0.5 kg of cocaine and arrested 
one person in the city of Comodoro Rivadavia, Chubut Province. 
(Buenos Aires NOTICIAS ARGENTINAS in Spanish 2154 GMT 22 Jun 94) 
<H5>  Bolivia </H5>
  Agents of the Special Antinarcotics Force, FELCN, have 
arrested Martin Cadima Inturias and five other people and seized 
43.3 kg of cocaine during a raid at a house in the Juan Pablo II 
neighborhood, in Santa Cruz. (Santa Cruz EL MUNDO in Spanish 8 
Jun 94 p 13) 
  On 10 June, FELCN personnel arrested an unidentified driver 
and seized 15 kg of drugs during a raid at his house in the 
township of Sacaba, 14 km east of the city of Cochabamba. FELCN 
departmental chief General Hugo Guarachi termed the arrest 
"important" because if could lead to the discovery of a ring of 
traffickers. (Santa Cruz EL MUNDO in Spanish National Section 10 
Jun 94 p 2) 
  Colonel Armando Figueredo, FELCN departmental commander in 
Chapare, on 7 Jun stated that traffickers have reportedly chosen 
the city of El Alto to install a new cocaine crystalization 
center and a center to distribute drugs to neighboring 
countries. He said they reached this conclusion after many 
antidrug operations in the area in the past few months in which 
they detected Peruvian traffickers apparently "working" with 
local traffickers. (La Paz PRESENCIA in Spanish 8 Jun 94 p 7) 
  During May, the FELCN burned 1,671 grams of cocaine 
hydrochloride and 6,280 grams of cocaine sulfate and arrested 
six people, including two Peruvian citizens. FELCN Commander 
Figueredo said the drugs were confiscated during three 
operations in the cities of La Paz and El Alto. (La Paz HOY in 
Spanish 8 Jun 94 p 15) 
  An official poll on drug consumption in 11 Bolivian cities, 
in which 6,000 people were interviewed, showed that 37.9 percent 
of the urban population believe it is easy or very easy to 
obtain drugs for consumption, 41.6 percent said it is difficult 
or very difficult, and 20.5 percent said they did not know. The 
poll indicates that 56.3 percent of consumers and 46.7 percent 
of non-consumers believe consumption is increasing. Only 13.6 
percent and 13.3 percent of each group, respectively, said this 
problem declined in the cities. (La Paz LA RAZON in Spanish 13 
Jun 94 p A3) 
<H5>  Brazil </H5>
  On 20 June, Federal Police personnel arrested Netherlander 
Monika Van Der Linde, 24, and seized 5.5 kg of very pure cocaine 
at the Manaus international airport. The drug was hidden in her 
clothing. Federal Police delegate Carlos Cohen thinks she 
belongs to the same gang as Netherlander trafficker Daniel Van 
Der Terk, who was arrested on 7 April. (Sao Paulo AGENCIA O 
ESTADO in Portuguese 1826 GMT 21 Jun 94) 
<H5>  Peru </H5>
  Tumbes National Police agents have arrested Paulino Huaman 
Montalban, 40, Enrique Carranza Valderrama, 33, Dionisio Sanchez 
Pena, 22, Augencio Villa Santa, 28, and Lucio Segura Carranza, 
23, and seized 9.4 kg of cocaine paste as they were about to 
enter Ecuador across the international bridge. (Lima EL COMERCIO 
in Spanish 7 Jun 94 p A10) 
  Under the pretext of manufacturing and repairing car 
batteries, 21 firms from Huancayo bought chemicals that were 
then sent to the Upper Huallaga to process cocaine paste. The 
firms each purchased 1,000 to 1,500 kg of sulphuric acid. 
Antidrug Division, Dinandro, personnel arrested 13 battery 
dealers and closed 16 firms. Charges of diverting chemicals for 
drug trafficking were filed against Juan Lopez Osorio, Iris 
Palomares Ramos, Miriam Rojas Albinagorta, Julio Rojas 
Albinagorta, Hugo Rojas Navarro, Javier Rojas Albinagorta, Elmer 
Castillo Gomez, Maria Chamorro Palomino, Wilmer Castillo Gomez, 
Eleuterio Castillo Gomez, Mequia Rojas Orellana, and Braulio 
Aquiles Uriarte Ramos. A police operation also led to the 
seizure of 2,479 kg of sulphuric acid. (Lima EL COMERCIO in 
Spanish 9 Jun 94 p A10) 
  On 12 June, police agents arrested Pedro Ramirez Rios, 46, 
Liliana Koo Quispe, 28, William Verastegui Britos, 34, and Pedro 
Vascones Vega, 39, and seized 1.6 kg of very pure cocaine 
hydrochloride during a raid of a house in San Martin de Porres 
District, Lima. (Lima EL COMERCIO in Spanish 14 Jun 94 p A11) 
  Highway police personnel arrested Johnson Arrotea Maylle, 
25, 
and seized 1.1 kg of cocaine paste during a check on a bus at km 
100 of the Central Highway, in Matucana. The drug was concealed 
inside a pumpkin. (Lima EXPRESO in Spanish 16 Jun 94 p A13) 
  On 13 June, Lima National Police personnel arrested five 
people and seized a total of 3.6 kg of cocaine paste and 150 
grams of cocaine hydrochloride during a check on two buses 
coming from Tingo Maria and Huanuco. The detainees are Maria 
Bernal Aguirre, 23, and her brother Elmer; Maximiliano Celestino 
Villar, 32; Leonor Julia Rodriguez Villon, 38; and Victor Copia 
Hoyos, 22. (Lima EL COMERCIO in Spanish 16 Jun 94 p A17) 
  Custom police personnel seized more than 36 kg of cocaine as 
it was about to be shipped for Florida, USA. The drug valued at 
more than $3 million was placed at the disposal of Dinandro. 
Three people were arrested including a customs agent. (Lima 
Global de Television in Spanish 0030 GMT 22 Jun 94) 

