Language: <F P=105> Hebrew </F>
Article Type:BFN 

<F P=106> [Report by Eytan Rabin] </F>
  [Excerpts] Reports summing up the Central Command's 
activity in 1993 reveal that, from the beginning of 1988 to the 
end of 1993, the IDF [Israel Defense Forces] demolished 205 
houses of Palestinians who were involved in terrorist 
activities, sealed 228 houses, and sealed off 146 alleys. 
[passage omitted] 
  In 1993, the Central Command carried out 1,456 special 
operations. This figure includes operations by the Duvdevan 
undercover unit and operations to capture fugitives. March 
registered a record number of operations -- 156. 
  A soldier was lightly injured when stones were thrown at an 
IDF patrol in Gaza yesterday. He was treated and sent back to 
his unit. 
  A resident of Rafah who was digging in his field was 
surprised to find 28 land mines yesterday. He summoned the IDF 
and the defense forces which detonated the mines. IDF sources 
reported that the man was held for interrogation, but it is 
believed that he was not involved in planting the mines and that 
they were placed there by terrorists. 
  Two Palestinians were murdered yesterday on suspicion of 
collaborating with the Israeli authorities. [passage omitted] 
  Hamas [Islamic Resistance Movement] and Fatah have recently 
been conducting a campaign of murdering suspected collaborators. 
  Palestinian sources yesterday reported a series of incidents 
in the territories in which four residents were injured. 
[passage omitted] 

