BFN 

  [Text] Bratislava June 27 (CTK) -- Slovak President Michal 
Kovac said it may be possible to withdraw the disputed case of 
the Gabcikovo hydroelectric power project on the Danube from the 
International Court of Justice in The Hague. 
  If indeed a historical reconciliation has come about between 
Slovakia and Hungary, consideration could also then be given to 
whether it would be "more advantageous" and "wiser" to withdraw 
the case and resolve it together, Kovac told journalists in 
Bratislava today. 
  Slovakia accuses Hungary of violating its commitments in an 
international agreement concerning the project in 1977. Hungary 
accuses Slovakia of unilaterally deciding to divert the River 
Danube from its old course and of thereby causing great 
environmental damage. The case was taken to The Hague in May. 
  Kovac said he would test the possibility of a historical 
reconciliation on his visit to Budapest this autumn, on which he 
has been invited by Hungarian President Arpad Goncz. The two 
heads of state returned today from a visit to the United States 
during which they held talks with President Bill Clinton and 
received an award from the Institute for East-West Studies 
(IEWS) for their efforts in seeking a settlement between 
Slovakia and Hungary. 
  On his visit to Hungary Kovac hopes to hold talks not only 
with Goncz but also with members of the new Hungarian 
Government, he said. Maybe then questions like the 
Gabcikovo-Nagymaros dam could be de-politicised and settled more 
easily, he said. 

