Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] Cairo, Jan 8 (AFP) -- Egypt's Muslim Brotherhood on 
Saturday [8 January] urged the government to start a dialogue 
with Islamic militant groups in a bid to end a two-year wave of 
violence. 
  "Before starting talks, both sides must pledge to abandon 
violence," according to Brotherhood spokesman Ma'mun al-Hudabi, 
whose group supports creating an Islamic state through peaceful 
means. 
  Prime Minister Atif Sidqi said Friday that a dialogue with 
"terrorists" would be "useless". 
  President Husni Mubarak, after he won a third term in office 
in October, called for "a national dialogue" on all the 
country's problems including religious extremism. 
  The Muslim Brotherhood, tolerated as a religious group but 
banned as a political movement, is also asking for "free and 
honest" elections. 
  The spokesman said his group should be legalized, although 
the Egyptian Constitution bans political parties based on 
religion or regional ideology. 
  Meanwhile, two men suspected of belonging to militant groups 
opened fire Friday on two policemen who tried to detain them for 
questioning in the southern town of Abu Tij, but the officers 
were unhurt. 
  This was the first such confrontation in the fundamentalist 
stronghold of Asyut this year. 
  The clandestine Al-Jama'ah al-Islamiyah and al-Jihad stepped 
up their violent campaign for an Islamic state in March 1993, 
targeting government officials, policemen, tourists and Coptic 
Christians. 
  So far 272 people have been killed, including 95 policemen 
and 86 militants. 

