BFN 

  [Text] Bratislava, April 29 (CTK) -- The current government 
proceeds from the fact that the lustration law is valid and will 
seek to fulfill its obligations towards parties and movements 
which put their candidates for lustration through the Slovak 
Information Service (SIS), Interior Minister Ladislav Pittner 
said today. 
  He was answering the question of whether candidates proposed 
by political parties for early parliamentary elections, to be 
held in Slovakia at the end of September and the beginning of 
October, will be checked on whether they have collaborated with 
the former Czechoslovak secret police (StB). The 1991 
Czechoslovak lustration or screening law bars former communist 
party officials, StB agents, and People's Militia members from 
high political and economic posts until 1996. 
  The former government of ex-premier Vladimir Meciar did not 
ask that lustration certificates be produced because it 
evidently intended to abolish the lustration law. It had 
concluded an agreement with the Czech Republic under which the 
necessary documents should be returned to Slovakia gradually 
within 25 years, Pittner said. However, lustrations are not 
threatened since the new government had already agreed with the 
Czech authorities on the gradual return of the personal files of 
former StB collaborators. 
  However, the future of the lustration law in Slovakia would 
depend on the ruling of the Constitutional Court which was 
officially asked by Meciar's cabinet in January to investigate 
whether the lustration law does not contradict the Slovak 
Constitution. The former cabinet believed that the lustration 
law in "its full wording" runs contrary to the Slovak 
Constitution as it discriminates against some categories of 
people, does not respect the presumption of innocence and the 
need for cases to be judged by an independent court. 

