BFN 

<F P=106> [Interview with Johannes Rau, Social Democratic Party of </F>
Germany presidential candidate, by Michael Jach and Ulrich Reitz 
in Bonn; date not given: "I Would Like To Be a Patriot"] 
  [Text] [FOCUS] Now the Russians are permitted to say 
farewell in Berlin after all. Do you feel that it is good that 
they are treated like the Western allies, to whom we owe a great 
deal? 
  [Rau] I am glad that an agreement was achieved after all. 
However different the experiences with the former occupation 
powers may be -- we must not forget that the Russians paid a 
high toll in the fight against the Nazi empire and also played 
an invaluable role in Germany's unification. Without Gorbachev, 
there would have been no unification. 
  [FOCUS] Does one therefore have to go as far as Manfred 
Stolpe, who is insisting on equal treatment of Russians and 
Western allies? Rudolf Scharping and Guenter Verheugen 
contradicted him. 
  [Rau] I can understand the position of Stolpe and many 
eastern Germans. There is one day in recent German history of 
which we western Germans are far too little aware: 9 October 
1989, when the peaceful revolution in the GDR hung upon a 
thread. At that time, the Russians did not intervene. And he 
who wants partnership and reconciliation in the future has to 
prevent a farewell that has a discriminatory effect on the other. 
  [FOCUS] Was it wrong of the chancellor to envisage a 
farewell ceremony in Weimar -- far away from Berlin? 
  [Rau] It would have been better if the impression of 
discrimination had not been created at all. 
  [FOCUS] The withdrawal of the four powers from Berlin at the 
end of August marks a historic turning point. The beginning of 
German normality. 
  [Rau] Normality only in the sense that we do not take any 
special courses. By no means normality as if we are able to get 
rid of our history. Gustav Heinemann said: "If we want the 
others to forget what we did to them, we must not forget." 
  [FOCUS] The fact that the Nazi past is not supposed to pass, 
results in the Germans' neurotic relationship with the nation: 
Some take shelter in self-abnegation, some in arrogance. 
Neither of the two alternatives is historical thinking. 
  [Rau] I agree with you. But not only Richard von 
Weizsaecker made it clear that we have to deal with the burden 
of German history in a special way. Theodor Heuss rejected 
bitterly the concept of collective guilt, but he said: There is 
collective shame. Today there is the danger of offsetting: 
liberation against expulsion; harm that we did to others 
against harm that was done to us. This would be unhistorical 
thinking. It is important to consider the whole of German 
history. We cannot choose the dates. A few days after the U.S. 
President's visit to Germany, we will remember 20 July 1944. 
Those who recall resistance also have to talk of adaptation, 
which resulted in the suppression of this resistance for such a 
long time. 
  [FOCUS] Why is the national feeling not so natural for the 
Germans as for the French? 
  [Rau] The French national consciousness is based on French 
history and ours on German history. With a view to the past 100 
years, it will have to be a more broken one. 
  [FOCUS] One can buy the Danish flag in Danish supermarkets. 
In German supermarkets one will look for the black-red-gold 
cloth in vain. Is this also a sign of brokenness? 
  [Rau] If you do not get a German flag in the supermarket, 
you will get one from me. 
  [FOCUS] The fear that the Germans are drifting to the right 
is centered around the concepts of nation, German identity, 
normality. Is this a real danger? 
  [Rau] It is not greater than in other nations. However, we 
Germans must have higher inhibition thresholds because we know 
what was caused by extremism, nationalism, and insufficient 
democracy. The Weimar Republic was not ruined by too many 
extremists, but because there were not enough democrats. The 
reference to Le Pen in France must not play down extremist 
currents in our country. 
  [FOCUS] Are we facing a situation as in 1920, when leftist 
and rightist extremists began to put the screws on the big 
democratic parties and to paralyze them? 
  [Rau] No, I do not see a parallel here. In 1920 the Germans 
were still unskilled democrats. Now we have practiced and 
learned democracy for 50 years -- and it has proved to be very 
stable. First, of course, many adopted democracy only because it 
was connected with economic and social benefits. 
  In a time without growth like now, forces that are hostile 
to 
democracy may become stronger. This is not a danger for the 
democratic state, however, but a challenge for the democrats. 
  [FOCUS] Is the GNP discarded as a reason of state? What 
holds the Germans together? 
  [Rau] We must see to it that the GNP is not the only 
cohesive force. A nation is always also a community of history, 
experiences, and culture. 
  [FOCUS] Also a protection community? 
  [Rau] Also that. But in Germany it is constituted by the 
diversity of temperaments and regions. I feel that it is an 
enrichment that there are Saxons, Thuringians, Bavarians, 
Rhinelanders, and Westphalians. Everyone goes his own way and 
yet he knows: It is the same direction. 
  [FOCUS] Does the constitution belong to the cohesive forces? 
  [Rau] Clearly yes. 
  [FOCUS] What do you make of the concept of constitutional 
patriotism? 
  [Rau] I think that it is right what Gustav Heinemann said: 
Our Basic Law is not a tie, but a great offer. The decisive 
point of our constitution is the first sentence: The dignity of 
man -- any man -- is inviolable. It is given to the state, and 
the state is not to define and assign dignity. 
  [FOCUS] Cordt Schnibben wrote: "People who are national 
without becoming nationalist must be suspiciously watched like 
anonymous alcoholics who claim that they only want to drink a 
small glass." Are the Germans in danger of becoming addicted? 
  [Rau] Apparently some Germans, but not the majority. 
  [FOCUS] Wolfgang Schaeuble? 
  [Rau] At any rate, some are pursuing the game with the 
nationalist idea. They disregard the fact that the division 
between national and nationalist is very thin and the tightrope 
walk is very dangerous. A nationalist is someone who despises 
the motherland. A patriot is someone who loves his motherland. 
I would like to be a patriot. 
  [FOCUS] The German nationality law of 1913 defines the 
nation as a community of origin that is determined by blood. Is 
this way of thinking still up to date? 
  [Rau] At any rate, it is not the only democratic way. There 
are several democracies that are going another way. In view of 
the high immigration rate of the past decades, we as Germans 
should come to an understanding of the citizen that is no longer 
based on ethnicity alone. 
  [FOCUS] Is there a tolerance limit to immigration? Does one 
have to establish criteria that determine which people from 
which culture areas one wants to invite? 
  [Rau] One cannot choose that. The economic, ecological, and 
political causes of flight resulted in migration movements of 
such an extent that no humane state can completely insulate 
itself. One has to distinguish between asylum and immigration 
law. In the asylum compromise in which I participated, I am 
missing an immigration policy that takes worldwide causes of 
flight into account. The following is right: The integration 
capability ends where we become the scene of substitute civil 
wars. 
  [FOCUS] Can you specify your ideas of an immigration law? 
  [Rau] At any rate, I do not want a Canadian or U.S. law -- 
that is, a law that is mainly determined by the economic 
usefulness of the immigrants. We need an immigration law that 
is connected with our services for the refugees' countries of 
origin. We need another refugee policy. The task is not to 
combat the refugees, but the causes of flight. 
  [FOCUS] Let us talk of the integration of the foreigners who 
have lived in our country for a prolonged period of time. Are 
they to be given dual citizenship? 
  [Rau] It can be an offer, so that people who have lived in 
our country for a long time and want it can find a home here. I 
am convinced of that. 
  [FOCUS] Do you not see a contradiction between integration 
-- which would mean naturalization -- and dual citizenship that 
releases the foreigner from the decision on where he will 
integrate? 
  [Rau] I am prepared to accept this contradiction in 
well-grounded cases. There is an abundance of people who need 
the dual citizenship for different reasons, but do not get it. 
The reasons for objection do not convince me. 
  [FOCUS] Should foreigners who decide against naturalization 
be sent home again after a certain period? 
  [Rau] I think that this idea is just as new as it is 
useless. 
In this way, we would revise a practice of more than 30 years 
that is in the interest of all. 

