Language: <F P=105> Russian </F>
Article Type:BFN 

<F P=106> [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Igor Borisenko] </F>
  [Excerpt] Washington, 26 Feb -- Russian parliamentarians 
and law enforcement workers are visiting the United States with 
the aim of familiarizing themselves with the experience of U.S. 
law in fighting organized crime. They have held meetings with 
Attorney General Janet Reno, Secretary of Commerce Ronald Brown, 
and representatives of the State Department and the FBI. 
  The arrest of the CIA agent Aldridge Ames, accused of spying 
for Russia, "has had no effect" on the visit, Mikhail Mityukov, 
the head of the delegation and first deputy chairman of the 
State Duma, told ITAR-TASS. In his words, at meetings with the 
FBI heads, they discussed the fight against organized crime, 
first and foremost against the Italian mafia and Asian criminal 
groups. 
  We are primarily interested in how organized crime is 
combated in the United States, and how the law enforcement 
bodies act and cooperate, he continued. "The primary problem," 
according to M. Mityukov, is drawing up an American-Russian 
agreement on arranging laws which would open new paths toward 
cooperation in fighting organized crime. 
  Meanwhile, he added, the Russian and American experts "are 
establishing contacts to coordinate" their efforts. 
  Serious attention during the tour of the Russian delegation 
has been devoted to issues of intellectual property. "The fight 
against intellectual piracy is very topical", the Russian 
parliamentarian said. Both Russian and American businessmen are 
affected by it." [passage omitted] 

