BFN 

<F P=106> [Passages within quotation marks recorded] </F>
  [Text] [Unidentified correspondent] The denouement of the 
crisis surrounding Gorazde has shown the world that the NATO air 
strikes that were carried out against Serbian civilian and 
military targets around that town on two occasions were 
unjustified interference by the international community in the 
conflict and the direct involvement of the United Nations on the 
Muslims' side in the civil war in the former Bosnia-Herzegovina. 
  After NATO's air force, in the last 48 hours, UNPROFOR [UN 
Protection Forces] has also sided with the Muslims. Members of 
the Nordic Battalion fired from a personnel carrier, killing 
nine Serbian civilians near Tuzla. A similar incident, 
fortunately without casualties, also took place in Gorazde. 
  Commenting on the newly created situation, Radovan Karadzic, 
president of the Srpska republic, told the SRNA agency the 
following: 
  [Karadzic] ``Hiding behind NATO, the United States has come 
to the very edge of interfering in the civil war, and it is 
highly possible that some U.S. quarters will push the United 
States into a new Vietnam in Bosnia-Herzegovina. NATO is being 
used as an instrument for the United States to realize its aims 
and help the Muslim community in Bosnia. 
  ``Unfortunately, in addition to NATO, UN forces are 
increasingly frequently finding themselves fighting for the 
Muslims. We are asking the Nordic countries whether they 
authorized their battalion to attack Serbs and cause deaths 
among Serbian civilians. The families of these civilians will 
probably sue the Nordic countries and the United Nations. 
  ``We appeal to the United States to prevent its hawks from 
pushing it into a new Vietnam.'' 
  [Correspondent] Commenting on the start of the work of the 
international contact group, Dr. Karadzic said: 
  [Karadzic] ``We told the contact group that we doubt the 
success of its mission because they are not impartial. The 
mediator in this civil war must be absolutely impartial if he is 
to succeed. In this sense, we presented a memorandum to the 
contact group in which we drew their attention to the fact that 
the international community had based its most important 
decisions on the lies of Muslim propaganda and on fabricated 
reports that were completely different from what was happening 
on the ground. In our talks, we openly accused the 
international community represented by the contact group of 
bias.'' [Correspondent] Anti-Serbian activities are always a 
product of fierce anti-Serbian propaganda of the international 
media. The currently hot topics are Brcko, Doboj, and the 
corridor that links the Serbian republic with Serbia. Radovan 
Karadzic, president of the Srpska republic, sharply warned the 
international community with regard to this. 
  [Karadzic] ``The atmosphere around Brcko is (?heating up) in 
the international community. Brcko has been in Serbian hands 
since the beginning of the war, and the Serbs are not attacking 
Brcko since Serbs live in Brcko. We warn the international 
community that we will not accept any change in the status of 
Brcko, because Brcko and the corridor are in fact of vital 
interest for the Serbian nation. No one should expect any 
letting up in this respect.'' 

