BFN 

  [Text] Belgrade, April 16 (AFP) -- Bosnian Serb forces 
released Saturday [16 April] an American journalist working for 
a British newspaper, after detaining him for 24 hours as he 
tried to comply with an order to leave Serb-held sectors of the 
war-torn ex-Yugoslav republic. 
  Michael Montgomery, who works for the London-based DAILY 
TELEGRAPH, was stopped by Serb forces at Zvornik, in eastern 
Bosnia, as he attempted leave Bosnia. 
  The Serbs have banned all American journalists or those 
working for U.S. networks and publications from reporting in 
Serb-controlled regions of Bosnia-Herzegovina. 
  "I was on my way out of the (self-declared Bosnian) Serb 
republic following the Bosnian Serb authorities' decision to 
expel all American journalists from their territories," he told 
AFP after his release. 
  "I was arrested at Zvornik along with a woman who works at 
the (Bosnian Serb) information ministry. At first I was kept in 
a military barracks and interogated for half an hour by an 
officer who did not give his name," Montgomery said. 
  "He explained that I was to be held. They offered me the 
choice between staying in the barracks or transfering to a 
hotel, which I accepted," he added. 
  "I was not mistreated," he added. 
  Montgomery was kept under armed guard at the hotel until his 
release around midday (1000 GMT). 
  Meanwhile French newspaper LE MONDE became the latest victim 
of the Yugoslav authorities' action against Belgrade-based 
foreign correspondents since Wednesday, the daily's managers 
said in Paris Saturday. 
  LE MONDE'S Belgrade correspondent Florence Hartmann, 
currently reporting in Sarajevo, was stripped of her 
accreditation by Yugoslav authorities on Friday. 

