Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] Hangzhou, January 20 (XINHUA) -- East China's 
Zhejiang Province has stressed service trades in a bid to 
develop its market economy. 
  According to statistics, the provincial service trade sector 
has expanded at an annual speed of 13 percent over the past 
decade. It now has employs about five million people, or one 
for every five employees in the province. [sentence as received] 
  In addition, there are more than 4,000 markets forming a 
network with large wholesale markets as the leading factor, 
professional markets as the mainstay and rural fairs as the 
basic units. 
  In Yiwu city, known as the country's largest producer of 
small commodities, more than one third of the labor force is 
engaged in service trades, accounting for more than one half of 
the city's economy. 
  At present, Zhejiang has about 200 market towns, and they 
are 
developing into new political, economic and cultural centers. 
  Since 1989 the province has invested more than 10 billion 
yuan in building roads, bridges and telecommunications 
facilities while transforming airports and ports to meet the 
needs of its rapid economic development. 
  The improved investment conditions have attracted streams of 
tourists and business people from overseas. 
  Last year saw the province receive 700,000 visitors from 
overseas and obtain over 100 million U.S. dollars from tourism. 
  In addition, the province absorbed one billion U.S. dollars 
in foreign investment and exported 4.4 billion U.S. 
dollars-worth of goods last year. 

