Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] Tokyo, March 17 KYODO -- A government advisory 
panel Thursday [17 March] recommended that five new construction 
projects for electric power generation, including one nuclear 
power generator, be added to the current fiscal 1993 plan. 
  The five new facilities would have a combined power 
generation capacity of 1.57 million kilowatts, according to 
government officials. 
  Construction of the nuclear power generator would be the 
first such project allowed in six years. 
  The Electric Power Development Coordination Council 
presented 
the recommendations to Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa. 
  With the recommendation, the government will initiate legal 
procedures to implement the five projects by the end of month, 
the officials said. 
  The newly planned nuclear power generator is to be the third 
at Tohoku Electric Power Co.'s Megawa Nuclear Power Plant in 
Miyagi Prefecture. 
  Construction of the nuclear generator, set to have an output 
capacity of 825,000 kilowatts, is expected to be completed in 
March 2002. 
  The other four facilities include one using heat recycled 
from an incinerator at Takahama Electric Power Plant in Gunma 
Prefecture, a hydroelectric power plant in Hyogo Prefecture, 
another hydroelectric plant in Tottori Prefecture, and a 
thermoelectric station on an island off Niigata Prefecture. 
  These latest projects bring the total implemented by Japan 
in 
fiscal 1993 to 19 new electric power facilities -- seven 
hydroelectric, 11 thermoelectric, and one nuclear generator. 
  The total generation capacity of the 19 facilities will come 
to 4.45 million kilowatts, the officials said. 

