BFN 

  [Excerpt] La Paz, 6 Jun (JATHA) -- It was officially 
reported here today that seven Colombian drug trafficking gangs 
are attempting to control the small drug trafficking networks 
that operate in Bolivia and it is feared that they may organize 
criminal gangs to promote the proliferation of maceration pits 
and laboratories on peasants' properties. 
  This was revealed today during the opening of the first 
itinerant exhibition of "A Bolivia Free of Drugs" in which 
government officials and members of organizations that fight 
drug trafficking and abuse stressed that the people must become 
aware of the harm that this scourge causes at all levels. 
  A report made by the organizations that sponsor the 
exhibition states: "With the fall of the great Colombian drug 
cartel chiefs, their lieutenants have moved to other countries, 
in this case, Bolivia, where through violence and intimidation 
they are taking control of the drugs, thanks to the work of 
seven large Colombian gangs which control the small local gangs." 
  The report says that the presence of Colombian citizens, who 
enter the country through both legal and illegal means, is 
increasingly being detected in the Chapare region. 
  To this problem we must add the fact that the consumption of 
illegal drugs is increasing in Bolivia, a country which little 
by little is moving from a drug-producing to a drug-consuming 
country. 
  "This exhibition is about the long struggle and the efforts 
made by Bolivia to find solutions to this serious problem that 
threatens our democracy and undermines the bases of our 
society," Social Defense Under Secretary Mario Soliz stated. 
[passage omitted] 

