BFN 

  [Text] Beijing, June 16 (XINHUA) -- The Chinese Government 
demands once again that the Vietnamese Government stop its acts 
of infringement upon China's sovereignty, a Chinese Foreign 
Ministry spokesman said here today. 
  Since mid-May this year, the Vietnamese side has sent 
exploratory vessels to Wan An Reef (Vanguard Bank) area of 
China's Nansha [Spratly] sea area to conduct geophysical 
operation, spokesman Shen Guofang said at a weekly press 
conference this afternoon. 
  As is known to all, China has indisputable sovereignty over 
the Nansha Islands and their adjacent waters, and Wan An Reef is 
part of the Nansha islands, he said. 
  In recent years, Vietnam has demarcated certain blocks in 
this area for external bidding and repeatedly harassed the 
normal scientific survey and fishing activities of Chinese 
vessels, he said. Now it has moved into this area for oil and 
gas prospecting and development. 
  "It must be pointed out that these moves have seriously 
violated China's sovereignty over the Nansha Islands, and also 
put the `Wab-21' petroleum contract signed between China 
National Offshore Oil Corporation and Crestone Energy 
Corporation of the U.S.A. in serious jeopardy", Shen said. 
  The Chinese side has made solemn representations on many 
occasions to the Vietnamese side over its acts of violating 
China's sovereignty in Nansha, he said. 
  "The Chinese Government demands once again that the 
Vietnamese Government, proceeding from the overall interests of 
maintaining and developing the bilateral relations and 
preserving peace and stability in the region, stop the 
above-mentioned acts of infringement upon China's sovereignty," 
the spokesman said. 

