BFN 

<F P=106> [Report on interview with Kani Yilmaz, "spokesman of the </F>
political wing of the Kurdish Workers Party," by Klaus Tehar in 
Vienna; date not given --recorded] 
  [Excerpt] [Tehar] The war between the Turkish Government 
and the marxist PKK [Workers Party of Kurdistan] has acquired a 
European angle through the banning of Kurdish New Year's 
celebrations and German arms supplies to Turkey. At the moment, 
the Turkish Army is carrying out a military operation, in the 
course of which it has penetrated far into Iraqi territory. 
Kani Yilmaz, political representative of the PKK in Europe, 
said the following on this issue: 
  [Yilmaz] We do not only want the cease-fire, but we appeal 
to the Turkish Government to enter into a dialogue with us. Let 
us stop the war. The bloodshed must end. The Turkish and the 
Kurdish people should be able to coexist on an equal footing. 
This problem has to be solved. Prime Minister Ciller has 
unfortunately said that she would settle the affair through the 
use of force. She wanted to annihilate us even before the 
summer, but now it is spring, and we have, for the first time, 
30,000 people under arms and we can count on the support of 
millions of Kurds. So we are not negotiating from a position of 
weakness. If Turkey says no, things will even deteriorate. 
  [Tehar] After the banning of the PKK in Germany and the 
violent riots in connection with the Kurdish Newruz 
celebrations, Kurdish relations with Germany are tense. Kani 
Yilmaz attacks the German Government sharply. 
  [Yilmaz] Everywhere in Europe our emigres celebrated 
peacefully. Clashes occurred only in Germany. The German 
Government acted like Turkey does. Our evening rallies were 
banned, our flags and posters confiscated. The Germans must not 
forget one thing: It is with their weapons that our children 
are massacred. Nevertheless, we do not want to take the war to 
Germany. Let us talk with one another again. But, please, stop 
supplying arms to Turkey. [passage omitted] 

