BFN 

  [Text] Bayonne, France, April 20 (AFP) -- Spanish fishing 
boats blockaded the French port of Hendaye for the second 
straight day Wednesday [20 April] as tension remained high after 
a battle between 60 Spanish and 12 French vessels over their 
anchovy catch. 
  The French Basque region fishermen's union meanwhile on 
Wednesday protested the "unspeakable acts of violence" in 
Monday's incident during which 60 Spanish boats from 
Fuenterrabia, across the border, attacked the 12 French trawlers 
for exceeding their anchovy quota. 
  The French quota is 2,700 tonnes a year and the Spanish 
27,000 tonnes. 
  The Spanish started fires on three of the French ships, 
hurling petrol bombs and trying to board them after throwing 
grappling irons. Spanish fishermen said nine of their boats 
were damaged. 
  Shipping experts here said Wednesday that according to a 
partial estimate of the damage to the French boats, at least two 
nets costing 70,000 francs (12,000 dollars) each were destroyed. 
  French Fisheries Minister Jean Puech said Tuesday that the 
French fishermen should respect their quotas, but added that 
Spanish fishermen had no right to enforce European Union rules 
in French waters. 
  One French boat, the Laetitia, has been held in Fuenterrabia 
since being seized by the Spaniards on Monday, despite a promise 
that it would be returned. An angry crowd in the Spanish port 
burned its nets and destroyed its navigation equipment. 

