Language: <F P=105> Serbo-Croatian </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] Mate Granic, Croatian vice prime minister and 
minister of foreign affairs, has sent a letter to Italian 
Foreign Affairs Minister Beniamino Andreatta stressing that he 
had received with great concern and regret the news about the 
killing of the three Italian journalists in Mostar, and due to 
this tragical event he wished to express condolences to the 
Italian public and families of the killed journalists, the 
Ministry of Foreign Affairs has announced. 
  Their death is yet another confirmation of horrors caused by 
the aggression and war which is continuing in former Yugoslavia. 
Around 50 journalists have been killed so far, and as of late 
aid workers have become target of attacks which proves that we 
all have to double our efforts for the hostilities to cease and 
a peace solution to be found, Minister Granic's letter says. 
  Once again I would like to condemn the crime most vehemently 
and assure you that the Croatian government will not begrudge 
effort to provide help in an independent investigation to 
clarify the circumstances surrounding this tragic incident, the 
statement says underscoring that as soon the Croatian government 
received the news about the killing of the three Italian 
citizens, it exerted all its influence over the warring factions 
in Mostar to help in the establishment of a cease-fire and the 
evacuation of the killed journalists. 
  In conclusion of this letter Minister Granic said he was 
hoping that in the course of his forthcoming meeting in Rome he 
would be able to have talks with his Italian counterpart on the 
possibilities for halting the war in this area. 

