BFN 

  [Text] Bujumbura, 27 Jun (KNA/PANA) -- Former President 
Pierre Buyoya said Friday [24 June] in a televised broadcast 
that he was concerned by the "deep contradictions within the 
government" that could plunge Burundi in a civil war as 
atrocious as the one raging in Rwanda. While some are 
negotiating in an attempt to reinstate the presidential 
institution, others are preparing for war, he said, in apparent 
reference to the case of the minister of the interior, Leonard 
Nyangoma, who disappeared three months ago. 
  The former Burundi president said he perceived the "obvious 
signs of a civil war" in the fiery statements of some senior 
government officials and the operation of an unlicenced radio 
station calling for ethnic hatred and the arming of civilians. 
  Buyoya called for an end to "political bickerings" to avert 
civil war in the central African country. Urging his fellow 
countrymen to think about the 500,000 dead and three million 
displaced people in neighbouring Rwanda, he declared that he 
believed the Burundi people had other more urgent challenges to 
tackle. 
  In another development, the former Burundi president 
disapproved of French intervention in Rwanda, saying it came too 
late. Buyoya explained that it was "everything but a 
humanitarian initiative". The Rwandan crisis, he said, was a 
tragic theatre, adding that France, a country which was not 
neutral, could not, alone, play all the roles, as such, it could 
not act as a fair umpire between the warring parties, he added. 
  Pierre Buyoya, who spearheaded the democratic process in his 
country which led to the first multiparty elections of last 
June, said he was sceptical about the fate of democracy in 
Africa. According to him "it is a raw deal which does not take 
into account African realities and only the West stands to gain 
from the process." 

