Language: <F P=105> Spanish </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] Quito, 27 Jan (AFP) -- Colombia's Cali Cartel has 
expanded its operations into Ecuador, Colonel Telmo Erazo, 
director of investigations and Interpol liaison for the 
Ecuadoran police, stated here today. According to Erazo, 
Colombian narcotraffickers are using Ecuador as a bridge to ship 
cocaine into the international market. 
  "There are clues that the cartel is exerting influence in 
our 
country, and we are working to combat this," Erazo told newsmen. 
  The head of the counternarcotics squad does not dismiss that 
after the death of Pablo Escobar Gaviria, head of the Medellin 
Cartel, Cali's criminal organization has gained control of the 
drug business worldwide. 
  DEA reports indicate that the Cali Cartel is supplied with 
Peruvian and Bolivian cocaine paste, which is later processed in 
laboratories located in jungle regions of southern Colombia, 
especially in the Putumayo region along the Ecuadoran border. 
  The organization is also conducting large money laundering 
operations in Ecuador and in Venezuela, Chile, and Argentina, 
according to police spokesmen. 
  Over the past few days Ecuadoran, authorities have seized 
cocaine paste and cocaine hydrochloride, which were camouflaged 
in shipments bound for the United States and Europe. Several 
Spanish passengers, as well as passengers of other 
nationalities, presumably linked with drug trafficking, have 
been arrested in operations staged at the Guayaquil and Quito 
international airports. 

