CSO 

  [Text] Director Takao Ishiwatari of the Power Reactor and 
Nuclear Fuel Development Corporation held a press conference on 
the 5 April after the prototype fast breeder reactor ``Monju'' 
(Tsuruga City, Fukui Prefecture, 280,000kW power output) had 
reached criticality. During the press conference he disclosed 
that PNC had been looking into construction of a ``recycle 
experimental reactor'' that will strengthen Japan's 
non-proliferation measures in the hope of fending off increasing 
criticism against proliferation associated with 
plutonium-producing fast breeder reactors. 
  According to PNC officials, a mixture of plutonium and long 
half-life, hard-to-dispose transuranium (actinides) is extracted 
from spent nuclear fuel and burned as a fuel in the recycle 
research reactor which is a type of fast reactor. 
  Plutonium is thus handled in a state mixed with other 
substance, and therefore would be difficult to use for nuclear 
weapons. PNC intends to complete the nuclear fuel recycle within 
the nuclear power site by integrating the fast reactor and 
processing plant, so that nuclear materials will not have to 
leave the premise. 
  Director Ishiwatari enthusiastically discussed the actinides 
burnup/recycle research program, saying, ``The recycle system 
must be overhauled to measure up to non-proliferation 
expectations.'' The research on actinides recycling is expected 
to play a major role in the long-term plan for nuclear power 
development, the revision of which is near completion. 
  In regard to the technology for excess plutonium burnup 
using 
fast reactors, Director Ishiwatari also stated ``Monju is not 
suited to serve as a plutonium burner but is technically 
compatible.'' 

