BFN 

  [Text] Tallinn, 21 Apr, BNS -- The Estonian economy 
received in the first three months of the year 607.8 million 
kroons in foreign investments, Economics Ministry Deputy 
Chancellor Peeter Tohver told participants in a CEETEX '94 
seminar in Tallinn. 
  Tohver said there's been a conspicuous shift in the 
structure 
of investment in the first quarter. Whereas last year 61 
percent of foreign capital targeted industry, the figure for 
this year was only 23 percent. The investors displayed 
considerably more interest in the wholesale and retail trade, 
where investments jumped from last year's 35 percent to 65 
percent. The share of capital invested in the financial sphere 
fell from 11 percent in 1993 to 8 percent this year. 
  According to the Estonian Enterprise Register, Egypt rose to 
the top of the list of investors. The 273 million kroons 
invested by the Monir L Noba &amp; Abu Simbill company raises the 
share of Egyptian capital in foreign investments in Estonia to 
45 percent. 
  Tohver said this actually shows how little money has been 
invested in Estonia and how a multimillion-kroon investment in 
just one enterprise may change the correlation of forces in the 
investment market. 
  Finnish capital, invested in the first quarter in 356 
Estonian enterprises, accounted for 13 percent of total 
investments. The share of Swedish capital was the same, 13 
percent, but it was divided between 48 companies. 
  Estonian enterprises received last year a total of 671 
million kroons in foreign investments, of which Swedish capital 
formed 31 percent and Finnish capital accounted for 23 percent. 

