CSO 

  [Text] (Chicago, 1 April--Koji Yamamoto) Sumitomo Metal 
Industries has entered into a technical alliance with Birmingham 
Steel of Alabama, a leading U.S. electrical furnace (minimill) 
operator. Sumitomo Metal Industries will provide technical 
assistance in the construction and operation of a steel bar 
plant which Birmingham Steel has planned for construction in the 
continental United States. Sumitomo Metal Industries hopes to 
further its knowledge concerning the operation of electric 
furnaces as part of its plan to build its own strategy for such 
furnaces by expanding its alliances with leading U.S. electric 
furnace operators. 
  Birmingham Steel plans to double the production of steel 
bars 
to a level of 1.1 million tons at its AS&amp;W plant in Ohio, a 
medium-size steel bar maker which it purchased last year. Total 
capital to be invested has been set at $70 million and a search 
is underway for the plant site with a target plant opening date 
of January 1996. Sumitomo Metal Industries will provide know how 
on the selection of equipment, plant layout and operations. It 
will dispatch technicians to the plant site who will provide 
on-site training to plant workers for an unspecified period 
after the plant commences operations. Sumitomo Metal Industries 
will also assist in the modernization of the AS&amp;W plants 
currently in operation. 

