Language: <F P=105> German </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Excerpt] Hamburg (DDP/ADN) -- Interior Minister Manfred 
Kanther has called for the speedy punishment of Kurdish 
offenders, without lengthy proceedings. "Whoever turns our 
aliens' legislation -- which is more liberal in Germany than 
anywhere else -- against us, will get an uncompromising 
response," he said this evening on the ARD programme 
"Brennpunkt." Criminal proceedings and aliens' legislation 
involving deportation and expulsion will have to cover the same 
ground where possible. The "obstacles to deportation within 
aliens' legislation" -- which includes "the threat of the death 
penalty, inhumane treatment or torture" -- must be taken into 
account. "If there is evidence of this in individual cases, the 
person cannot be deported," the politician stressed. "Our 
generous asylum legislation is being turned against us as a host 
country in an unbearable fashion through violence. Our asylum 
law must be supplemented by aliens' legislation," he added. 
Refugees and asylum-seekers could also be deported "provided 
they have been convicted of a serious offense." Many such 
offenses have no doubt been committed in the past few days. 
[passage omitted] 

