BFN 

  [Text] The Foreign Ministry has reported that Argentina and 
the United Kingdom simultaneously agreed to ban, as of 1 June, 
the fishing of Illex squid south of parallel 43 in the South 
Atlantic in an effort to preserve the species. 
  The measure was adopted by the Agriculture, Livestock, and 
Fishing Secretariat based on recent studies by the National 
Institute for Fishing Development and Research (Inipep), with 
the approval of the British Government. 
  An analysis of Illex squid levels below latitude 43 degrees 
30 minutes south emphasized the "suitability" of "preventive 
measures" to "maintain and preserve" the species. 
  The secretariat also decided "to ban for a reasonable time" 
the fishing of Illex Argentinius "south of parallel 43 as of 1 
June" to preserve "sustainable levels." 
  The resolution will apply to "all Argentine and 
foreign-flagged ships" legally authorized to fish in Argentine 
waters. It adds that "the Argentine Navy will strictly observe 
the situation" to prevent violations. 
  High-ranking British Government officials told the Argentine 
Foreign Ministry of their decision to adopt "similar measures," 
also as of 1 June, once Argentina's resolution banning the 
fishing of squid was announced. 
  Diplomatic sources indicated that the British measure is 
based on a 1990 joint Argentine-British declaration on the 
preservation of fishing resources ratified in November 1993. 
  The Argentine-British coincidence to ban the fishing of 
Illex 
squid comes just a few days before the eighth meeting of the 
Bilateral Commission on South Atlantic Fishing in London on 6 
and 7 June. 

