BFN 

<F P=106> [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Sergey Ostanin] </F>
  [Text] Gudauta June 23 TASS -- Russian mine-clearers have 
made two check points and four observation points in Gali 
(Abkhazia) safe for use. Gali has become the headquarters of 
the Russian peace- keeping troops in the western security zone. 
  The mine-clearing operations in Gali, along the Georgian- 
Abkhazian conflict line, was the result of the Russian 
peace-keeping mission's first day of work, ITAR-TASS was told on 
Thursday by Colonel Aleksandr Luchaninov, the Russian Defence 
Ministry's spokesman in the Georgian-Abkhazian conflict zone. 
  According to the colonel, a battalion of field engineers is 
using technical means and mine-seeking dogs to conduct the 
mine-clearing operations in the locality where the peace-keeping 
forces will be stationed. The Russian military need to hastily 
put up almost 40 block houses on an area of more than one 
thousand square kilometres. 
  Luchaninov reported that the Russian military are now 
preparing the text of an appeal to the population of Abkhazia. 
The peace- keepers will use the local mass media and distribute 
leaflets to explain the goals and purposes of the Russian 
peace-keeping mission. The most important conditions for the 
fulfillment of those goals, the spokesman said, are the 
surrender of arms by the population in the danger zone on the 
Inguri river, and the withdrawal of heavy weapons, armoured 
vehicles, and artillery to the positions agreed upon in the 
Georgian-Abkhazian agreement signed May 15 of this year. 
  Luchaninov said that the Russian military personnel were 
determined to put a halt to any illegal actions directed against 
the peace-keepers, and were ready to shoot to kill without 
warning. 

