BFN 

  [Text] Tallinn, 21 Apr, BNS -- Estonian Prime Minister 
Mart Laar continued his official visit to the United States on 
Wednesday [20 April] in a meeting with World Bank President 
Lewis Preston. 
  Laar thanked Preston for the tremendous amount of work the 
World Bank specialists have put into developing Estonian 
economy, as well as for past and future financial support. 
  The meeting discussed two concrete loan projects, one of 
which targets the implementation of reforms in Estonian 
agriculture and food industry as well as a land reform, and the 
other would open for Estonia a credit line with the World Bank 
for long-term loans. 
  Laar met yesterday also with a number of influential 
American 
politicians. He had a longer talk with Representative Richard 
J. Drubin. Durbin showed particular interest in Estonia's 
cooperation with Western military structures, especially the 
North Atlantic Treaty Organization. They also discussed the 
state of Estonian-Russian relations and key issues of Baltic 
cooperation. 
  Laar delivered Wednesday night a speech at the U.S. Center 
for Strategic and International Studies, emphasizing the 
liberality of Estonia's economic policy and the country's 
difficult situation in the context of the world security policy. 
  The Estonian premier left Thursday morning for New York, 
where he is to meet with the U.N. Secretary General Butrus 
Butrus Ghali and address a plenary session of the U.N. 
population and development conference organizing committee. 
  Laar continues his visit in Boston. He is scheduled to speak 
at Harvard University about Estonian economy. 
  The Estonian premier is accompanied by Foreign Ministry 
Chancellor Indrek Tarand, his private secretary Toomas Kiho, and 
government adviser Ardo Hansson. 
  Laar returns to Estonia 25 April. 

