BFN 

<F P=106> ["Special dispatch" by special correspondent Li Hai (6849 </F>
3189): "Liuzhou Police Break Up Transnational Drug Trafficking 
Ring, Arresting 13 Criminals and Seizing Some 3 kg of Heroin"] 
  [Text] Nanning 26 Mar (WEN WEI PO) -- Liuzhou, in Guangxi, 
broke up a major transnational drug trafficking ring, arresting 
13 criminals, two of whom were Burmese. Some 2,800 grams of 
heroin and 30,000 yuan were seized, in addition to 280,000 yuan 
and $500 in counterfeit banknotes. 
  The drug was trafficked to the Chinese mainland from Burma 
via Yunnan, with the ultimate destinations of Guangzhou and Hong 
Kong. On their way via Liuzhou, the traffickers attempted to 
"open a new market" in that city. On 3 March, this ring of 
criminals wrapped some heroin in small packages, which they put 
in their pockets, and started peddling them on the street. They 
were promptly discovered, and reported to the police. 
  At around 1500, drug-trafficker Peng Zhiquan [1756 1809 
2938] 
was caught red-handed while making a deal with someone. Peng's 
house was searched, with the result that 120 grams of heroine 
and a balance and a drug-packaging apparatus were discovered. 
  With clues provided by Peng, two other drug-traffickers--Lin 
Guorong [2651 0948 2837], and Xu Zijun [6079 2655 0689]--then 
were rounded up, with 140 grams of heroin seized. 
  In the wake of this operation, local public security cadres 
and policemen tracked down other accomplices by following clues 
in hot pursuit. One after another, the whole ring of drug 
traffickers was rounded up, including Long Minxiong [7893 2404 
7160], Dong Yunxiang [5516 0061 7449], He Ganmo [0149 1626 
7803], Zhang Zhijun [1728 1807 6511], Bao Dolong [0202 6670 
7893], and Yu Jiachang [0151 1367 2490]. In addition, 18 bricks 
of heroin weighing a total of 2,500 grams were seized, along 
with 280,000 yuan in counterfeit 100-yuan notes and $500 in 
counterfeit banknotes, as well as some 30,000 yuan of drug 
money, a gun, and a number of fake identification cards. 

