BFN 

  [Text] The Baltic Assembly urged Russia to recognize its 
responsibility for the damage caused by the USSR to the Baltic 
states during the occupation years. This was stated in the 
resolution on relations with Russia adopted by the Baltic 
Assembly. The session of the assembly finished in Jurmala today. 
  The resolution called on the Russian leadership to stop 
psychological pressure on Estonia and to withdraw the Russian 
troops by August 31, 1994. The resolution also demanded that 
Russian recognize the unsettled territorial problems in 
relations with Latvia and Estonia created by the USSR and 
refrain from pressure on the Baltic states when signing and 
implementing mutual treaties. The Baltic Assembly insisted that 
Russia officially recognize the fact of occupation of the Baltic 
states by the USSR in 1940. 
  The assembly adopted one more statement saying that any 
threat or form of pressure against one of the Baltic states will 
be regarded as that against all of them. This document appeared 
after the recent statement by Russian Defense Minister Pavel 
Grachev on possible introduction of additional Russian military 
contingency to Estonia. 
  A total of 108 documents were adopted by the assembly. This 
includes the treaty on cooperation between Latvia, Lithuania and 
Estonia, the provision on the Baltic Council of Ministers and 
agreements on cooperation in the sphere of energy supply, 
environment and others. 
  The Baltic Assembly confirmed the preparedness to cooperate 
with the Western European Union and NATO and with Western Europe 
countries. 
  The present session elected new leadership of the assembly. 
Lithuanian parliament's Vice Speaker Egidijus Bickauskas was 
elected its President. 
  The Baltic Assembly is the inter-parliamentary consultative 
and coordinating body uniting Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia. It 
was set up in the end of 1992. 

