Language: <F P=105> Estonian </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Excerpt] Finnish Prime Minister Esko Aho arrived in 
Estonia today on a two-day visit. This morning he held a 
lengthy meeting with Estonian Prime Minister Mart Laar. Uku 
Toom asked Toivo Klaar, the head of the Foreign Ministry's 
policy department, to sum up what was discussed. 
  [Klaar] It was a good meeting. Estonian-Finnish economic 
relations as well as Estonian-Finnish political relations were 
discussed, and it was acknowledged that there are no problems. 
Things are on an upward curve. And generally, Estonian-Finnish 
relations cannot be much better. Prime Minister Aho stated that 
President Martti Ahtisaari will visit Estonia, hopefully before 
the summer. 
  We also discussed the issue of a gas pipeline and the Via 
Baltica highway. These are both issues of a great interest to 
the two countries. Finland is of course more interested in 
having the gas pipeline to Estonia passing through Finland 
[words indistinct]. 
  We also discussed the European Union and any Estonian 
progress in free-trade talks. We discussed cooperation in this 
respect. Naturally, the Russian troop withdrawal issue was also 
discussed and Prime Minister Aho stated once again that Finland 
supports and will continue to support a prompt troop withdrawal. 
[passage omitted] 

