BFN 

<F P=106> [Unattributed article: "Rwanda: Pope on Killings, Martino </F>
on Italian Contribution"] 
  [Excerpts] (ANSA) Rome, June 9 -- Recent killings of 
Catholic clergy in Rwanda have left Pope John Paul II "deeply 
upset," the pope said in a letter to Rwandan clergy on Thursday 
[9 June]. 
  Responding to reports that more than 20 members of the 
clergy, including Kigali's Archbishop Vincent Nsengiyimva, were 
killed earlier this week along with over 60 civilians, the 
pontiff called on all those involved in the bloody civil war to 
"do everything possible to ensure that the paths of concord and 
reconstruction are soon opened up in the country, which has been 
so seriously rent apart." [passage omitted] 
  In a vote last night, the UN Security Council gave the 
go-ahead for a 5,500-strong contingent to be sent to Rwanda to 
protect refugees, deciding that the contingent would be made up 
entirely of African soldiers, and that it would not be able to 
resort to arms to end conflicts. Although personnel is standing 
by ready to go to the war-torn African country, logistical and 
support equipment is still lacking and may take three weeks to 
put together, UN sources said. 
  (In Istanbul for an Atlantic Council meeting of NATO foreign 
ministers, Italy's diplomatic chief Antonio Martino ruled out 
any form of intervention which was not closely coordinated with 
the UN. "We all want to do something, and we all should do 
something, but we also have to avoid acting hastily, and not in 
connection with the UN and the other countries involved," said 
Martino.) 
  (According to the Italian minister, the situation in Rwanda 
is "a human tragedy of biblical proportions," and "extremely 
complex.") 
  (Asked whether Italy would be sending any troops to Rwanda, 
Martino recalled the UN's insistence in letting African soldiers 
deal with the problem, and pointed out that even countries with 
direct links with Rwanda, such as Belgium and France, have not 
been allowed to take part in UN efforts despite offers to this 
effect.) [passage omitted] 

