BFN 

  [Text] On Pakistan's initiative, a meeting of the contact 
group of the Islamic Conference Organization is going to be held 
in Cairo today to discuss the situation in Bosnia-Herzegovina. 
Our delegation, headed by Foreign Minister Irfan Ljubijankic, 
who is attending the (?conference) as a guest, was informed of 
this by the Pakistani representatives. 
  During the talk with Minister Ljubijankic, the Pakistani 
foreign minister also promised firm support to 
Bosnia-Herzegovina when the declaration of the Cairo conference 
on the Nonaligned Movement is drafted. Pakistan will contribute 
to the discussion on lifting the embargo on arms imports into 
Bosnia-Herzegovina. 
  During the discussions on bilateral relations, the two 
ministers discussed the appointment of a Pakistani ambassador to 
Sarajevo. The government in Islamabad also promised help in 
establishing relations and cooperation with other countries, 
particularly China and Japan. 
  Ljubijankic also had a brief meeting with the Chinese 
ambassador in Cairo, who is heading the official Chinese 
delegation at the conference. They discussed possibilities of 
furthering relations and the mutual recognition of the two 
countries. 
  Already on the first day of the Cairo conference, Minister 
Ljubijankic talked with Arab League Secretary General Ismat 
'Abd-al-Majid. Full support was expressed for the Republic of 
Bosnia-Herzegovina and one expression of such an attitude was 
the refusal to allow Serbia and Montenegro to participate in the 
nonaligned countries conference. Minister Ljubijankic also had 
other meetings with many world dignitaries who attended the 11th 
Ministerial Conference of the Nonaligned Movement. 

