BFN 

<F P=106> [Report by S. Lalovic: "Arms Dealer Arrested"] </F>
  [Text] Pale, 3 June -- The smuggling of arms and 
ammunition -- arriving in the Muslim part of Sarajevo under the 
auspices of UNPROFOR [UN Protection Forces] -- is an ongoing 
phenomenon, and the latest event in the Kasindolska Street has 
only confirmed that. Mufid Halilovic, one of five arms dealers, 
was arrested during a routine control at a Serbian Army 
checkpoint and admitted that Alija Izetbegovic, Haris Silajdzic, 
and Irfan Ljubijankic are directly involved in the arms trade. 
  According to Halilovic, they did so during their many visits 
abroad and most frequently at peace conferences. A former 
student of the Machine Faculty, Halilovic also claims that 
Frankfurt airport is the main center from which the weapons, 
well packed and camouflaged, were delivered. He himself was a 
coordinator for humanitarian aid at a U.S. military base in that 
city, which made his job in arms dealing easier. 
  Halilovic also says that, together with Italian citizen 
Andre 
Andjeli, as well as Sulejman Catovic, Sead Kulic, and Saban 
Salcinovic, he freely obtained arms and ammunition from Ploce in 
Croatia and then brought them, via the "Blue Road," to Sarajevo. 
All this was, according to him, carried out under UNPROFOR 
protection, and the people who participated in this had UNPROFOR 
press cards on them, which enabled them to move over virtually 
the entire territory of the former Bosnia-Herzegovina and even 
beyond, that is, abroad. 
  This only confirms the former knowledge that hundreds of 
people in the Muslim part of Sarajevo who have nothing to do 
with the public media possess UNPROFOR press cards that enable 
them to use transporters and helicopters to be transferred to 
desired places. As a comparison, only six people working for 
Serbian Radio and Television possess these press cards. 

