BFN 

  [Text] The nuclear power subcommittee (whose chairman is 
Yoshihiko Morozumi, an adviser to the Electric Power Development 
Co.) of the Advisory Committee for Energy, an advisory organ to 
the Ministry of International Trade and Industry [MITI], 
released on 10 June an interim report proposing revisions to the 
nuclear cycle. The proposals included one for putting off 
operating a second reprocessing plant for extracting plutonium 
from spent nuclear fuel. The government's Atomic Energy 
Commission is presently working to revise its long-term plan to 
use nuclear power and on 22 June is planning to decide on 
revising the nuclear fuel cycle. The government's position -- 
which has been positive on using plutonium as a fuel made, in a 
sense, in Japan -- has greatly changed direction. 
  The subcommittee's report also takes into consideration the 
growing international concern regarding nuclear proliferation as 
the result of such issues as the Democratic People's Republic of 
Korea's (North Korea) suspected development of nuclear weapons. 
In addition, the urgency of the plan to use plutonium has waned 
with the easing of the uranium supply, which has slowed down the 
plan. Concerning the nuclear fuel cycle, the report calls for 
expanding the production of enriched uranium to fuel nuclear 
reactors. On the other hand, the report postpones the planned 
second reprocessing plant, for which the plan until now had been 
to commence operations around the year 2010. 

