BFN 

  [Text] Duesseldorf (DPA) -- According to findings of the 
North Rhine-Westphalian Office for the Protection of the 
Constitution, leading functionaries of the extreme-right 
Republikaner participated in xenophobic violent attacks last 
year. As the Duesseldorf Interior Ministry reported on Thursday 
[7 April], a member of the executive committee of the Middle 
Rhine District Committee, among others, participated in an 
attack on an asylum-seekers' home in Bergheim-Zieverich near 
Cologne. Thus, the ministry confirmed a report in the NEUE 
RHEIN/RUHR ZEITUNG (NRZ). 
  A statement made in lieu of an oath by a member of the 
executive committee shows that the incident was covered up "in 
order not to discredit the party." Achim Baumann, head of the 
North Rhine-Westphalian Office for the Protection of the 
Constitution, said on west German radio that it is a "scandal" 
that high-ranking party committees tried to prevent criminal 
acts of their members from becoming public. 
  As is shown by an Interior Ministry file, investigations are 
being carried out against members of the Republikaner district 
executive committees of Wuppertal, Recklinghausen, and Herford 
because of the illicit possession of arms and the violation of 
the war-weapons control law. According to the report, two 
members of the Republikaner were sentenced to four years' 
imprisonment each after a Turk suffering from a heart disease 
died because of a "fictitious execution" in Muelheim/Ruhr in 
March 1993. According to the Interior Ministry, two members of 
the Dortmund District Committee were charged with dangerous 
personal injury after a knife battle with a xenophobic 
background. 
  The North Rhine-Westphalian Interior Ministry reproaches FRG 
Interior Minister Manfred Kanther (Christian Democratic Union) 
for "negligence" since he granted a "special status" to the 
Republikaner in the report of the Federal Office for the 
Protection of the Constitution, which will soon be published, 
and does not characterize the party as clearly extreme right. 

