BFN 

<F P=106> [Statement issued by President Alpha Oumar Konare in Bamako; </F>
date not given -- read by announcer] 
  [Excerpt] [passage omitted] Mali, like the entire 
international community, is very satisfied with the ANC's 
victory in the South Africa elections. These elections, which 
are the result of struggle, sufferings, and sacrifices, has put 
an end to apartheid which had turned racial discrimination into 
a system of government. These elections represent an important 
link on the path to national reconciliation and the advent of a 
united, non-racial, and democratic South Africa. These 
elections also constitute an obvious achievement for the 
stability, solidarity, and cooperation in the southern subregion 
of the continent, and at the same time open new prospects for 
cooperation between South Africa and the rest of Africa. 
  Mali is happy about the advent of majority rule and pays 
tribute to all the pioneers of the struggle against apartheid 
who made enormous sacrifices for the principle of one man one 
vote to prevail. Mali hails the great work accomplished by the 
South African people to make this day a reality. It assures 
them of its friendship [words indistinct]. Finally, Mali 
considers that nothing should henceforth oppose the 
establishment of diplomatic relations between the Republic of 
South Africa and the Republic of Mali. 

