BFN 

  [Excerpt] The Philippines yesterday advised China and 
Vietnam to resolve through dialogue their territorial dispute 
over the South China Sea where a search for oil is under way. 
  PetroVietnam oil company signed an agreement with Mobil Oil 
to explore the Blue Dragon field on Hanoi's continental shelf, 
adjacent to the disputed Spratly Islands, after Beijing signed a 
deal with another U.S. company, Crestone Energy Corp., to 
prospect in a nearby field with Chinese naval protection. 
  The contracts drew protests from both Hanoi and Beijing, and 
elicited concern from neighboring countries. 
  Philippine Foreign [Affairs] Secretary Roberto Romulo told 
reporters that Brunei, China, Malaysia, the Philippines, Taiwan 
and Vietnam -- which claim all or part of the Spratlys -- 
"understand the Manila declaration" to seek a peaceful 
resolution to the conflict. 
  "We hope that there will be a dialogue and a meeting of the 
minds," he added. 
  Manila, which has given permission to foreign and local oil 
firms to prospect for oil in the central and southern 
Philippines, has likewise approved a geophysical survey and 
exploration contract (GSEC) with a consortium of seven Filipino 
firms to prospect an area that includes the Reed Bank, which 
adjoins the Spratlys. 
  Energy department sources said no foreign or Filipino oil 
firm has so far applied for a GSEC in the part of the Spratly 
area claimed by the Philippines. 
  "That is a difficult proposition," the sources said. "Nobody 
will enter that." [passage omitted] 

