Language: <F P=105> Spanish </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] Mexico City, 14 Jan (DPA) -- Manual Camacho Solis, 
commissioner for peace and reconciliation in Chiapas, today 
formally accepted the mediation of Samuel Ruiz, bishop of San 
Cristobal de las Casas, with the Zapatist National Liberation 
Front (EZLN). 
  In statements made in this colonial city in southeastern 
Mexico, Camacho Solis said that Monsignor Ruiz will also play a 
key role in the effort to approach the guerrillas to establish a 
dialogue. Ruiz, who with two other bishops from Chiapas State 
had offered to mediate at the beginning of the armed conflict on 
1 January, was proposed by the guerrilla organization itself. 
  Also proposed were 1992 Nobel Peace Prize winner Rigoberta 
Menchu and journalist Julio Scherer Garcia, director of the 
magazine PROCESO. Menchu in the beginning seemed willing to 
contribute to the dialogue process, but Scherer Garcia declined 
the invitation. 
  Camacho Solis, appointed as commissioner for peace by 
President Carlos Salinas de Gortari, said that thus far he has 
not established contact with the rebel group and reiterated that 
the negotiation process will probably be lengthy. The former 
foreign secretary and mayor of Mexico City, known in political 
circles as a skillful negotiator and peace-maker, has been in 
San Cristobal de las Casas from 12 January, working with Bishop 
Ruiz on a plan for rapprochement with the EZLN. 
  The framework for the negotiations plan is the cease-fire 
unilaterally decreed by President Salinas de Gortari on 12 
January, two days after Camacho Solis was appointed peace 
commissioner. 

