BFN 

  [Text] Riga, May 10, BNS -- The consumer prices increased 
2.7 percent between March and April, the State Statistics 
Committee reported. 
  Prices went 1.7 percent up in March, 3.4 percent up in 
February and 3.8 percent up in January. Thus, in April compared 
with December, 1993, prices rose 12.2 percent. The annual 
inflation rate since April, 1993, was 32.4 percent. 
  In 1993 and 1994, inflation reached its peak last November 
when prices soared 8.8 percent. The lowest inflation rate was 
reported last August when deflation ran at 1.7 percent. 
  The Cabinet decided to raise the monthly minimum wages from 
15 lats to 22.5 lats, or 50 percent, beginning with May 1. 
  Regardless of inflation, the exchange rate of the national 
currency, the lat, against the Special Drawing Rights [SDR] 
currency basket remained stable 0.79 lats against 1 SDR unit. 
  The Bank of Latvia's refinancing rate also remained 
unchanged, it was 27 percent per year. Simultaneously, the 
hidden interest rates in auctions of state treasury bills 
dropped from 32 percent to 29 percent. The average discount 
rate of state securities was 23 percent in April. 
  The monthly inflation rate in Latvia should not exceed 0.5 
percent, according to requirements of a joint memorandum of 
Latvia and the International Monetary Fund. 
  Unofficial sources have said that the Latvian Government 
plans to seek increasing of the minimal acceptable monthly 
inflation rate to 1 percent. 
  Lithuania reported the lowest inflation rate in the Baltic 
countries in April (1.6 percent) while in Estonia inflation rate 
edged up highest (3.1 percent). In Russia, prices rose 9.7 
percent last month. 

