BFN 

<F P=106> [Article signed HF/HA/AZ: "Some 15,000 Counterfeited $100 </F>
Banknotes Printed in Schwyz"] 
  [Text] Bern/Munich, 31 May (ATS) - Some 15,000 $100 bills 
were seized a couple of days ago in the German town of 
Sindelfingen. Police forces in Schwyz Canton conducted a search 
of a printing shop and arrested an individual in this case, 
suspected of engaging in counterfeiting activities. 
  The cooperation between the Schwyz police and the judicial 
authorities of Baden-Wurtemberg led to the search of a printing 
shop in Schwyz on Friday [27 May]. This is where the 
counterfeited dollars were manufactured. The value of the 
seizure amounts to approximately 2.1 million Swiss francs. 
Folco Galli, spokesperson of the Federal Department of Justice 
and Police (FDJP), confirmed on Tuesday that the police of the 
canton also arrested the alleged counterfeiter. 
<H5>  The Counterfeiter Resides in Switzerland </H5>
  The counterfeiter, a foreign national living in Switzerland, 
has been remanded in custody in the canton of Schwyz. Interpol 
Germany and Switzerland worked together on this case. The FDJP 
has not provided additional details. 
  Following a long investigation, German police seized $1.5 
million in counterfeit notes in a Sindelfingen hotel last 
Friday. The police also arrested seven persons: One Swiss 
national, four Germans, and two Croats. Two persons, including 
the Swiss national, were released on Tuesday, the Tubingen 
police announced. 
  This case follows another counterfeit case of 1,000 Swiss 
francs [SFr] banknotes seized on Friday in Aschaffenburg, in 
Southern Germany. The value of the seized notes amounted to 
SFr5 million. Dieter Schinzel, German member of the European 
Parliament, was arrested at the time with six accomplices. 
<H5>  Two Genuine Banknotes Per Bundle </H5>
  A small part of the seized banknotes, the first and last of 
each bundle, was genuine, Mr. Galli disclosed on Tuesday. 
However, Swiss authorities have not yet been officially 
assigned this case, although there have been contacts between 
the Munich police and the anticounterfeiting services in Bern. 
  Mr. Schinzel and the seven persons arrested on Friday have 
been remanded in custody. Mr. Schinzel, a member of the 
European Parliament since 1979, has been requested by his party 
to temporarily renounce all his functions or elective mandates. 
He is the president of the Social Democratic Party in Aachen. 
He was not a candidate in the 12 June European elections. 

