BFN 

  [Text] Hangzhou, June 9 (XINHUA) -- Merck and Co. Inc., of 
the U.S.A., one of the world's largest producers of medicines, 
has set up its first joint venture in China with Hangzhou 
Huadong Medicine Group Corporation. 
  The joint venture, the Hangzhou MSD Pharmaceutical Co Ltd, 
was formally established here on Wednesday [8 June]. Qi Moujia, 
the head of China's State Pharmaceutical Administration, cut a 
ribbon at the opening ceremony. 
  Qi said that he believed the joint venture would give great 
impetus to the development of China's pharmaceutical industry. 
  About 100 foreign-funded pharmaceutical companies have been 
set up since China's pharmaceutical industry opened to the 
outside world in 1978, he said. 
  Merck and Co has 16 production centers around the world, 
which are all called "MSD." It has been among America's ten 
best companies for years. Last year, its sales value exceeded 
10 billion U.S. dollars. 
  The total investment in the joint venture is over 26 million 
U.S. dollars, 75 percent of which comes from the American firm. 
The venture's contract has a 30-year term. 
  The joint venture will produce medicines to treat 
rheumatism, 
cardiovascular disease, prostate and other diseases, using 
Merck's patent technology. 
  It will use Merck's advanced management style as well as its 
science and technology. 
  All the products of the joint venture are intended for sale 
on the Chinese market, partly replacing imports of the same 
medicines. 
  The sales value of the joint venture is due to reach 3.5 
billion yuan (about 400 million U.S. dollars) within six years. 

