BFN 

<F P=106> [From 19 April PEVALEHT, p.1; "News Bulletin" No. 74/94] </F>
  [Text] U.S. Minister of Defence William Perry described 
Estonia as a model of success at his meeting with Prime Minister 
Mart Laar yesterday. The meeting concerned Estonia's main 
foreign political problems -- the Russian troops withdrawal and 
the U.S. support to the move, Laar told the "Voice of America." 
Defence Minister Perry stressed that the United States will not 
be dictated by anyone, how far it can support Estonia in 
security matters, Laar said. 
  The security cooperation will include the strengthening of 
the border guard, the forming of the Baltic peacekeeping 
battalion, equipping the Defence Forces, measures within the 
"Partnership for Peace" programme and involving Estonian reserve 
officers of the U.S. armed forces in the training of the 
Estonian troops. 
  Laar also met Assistant Secretary of State Strobe Talbott 
and 
political aids to the Secretary of State Peter Tarnoff and 
addressed the Carnegie International Foundation. 
  He is to meet Vice President Al Gore today and to sign two 
important economic agreements which are expected to increase 
U.S. investments in Estonia. 
  MP Viktor Niitsoo expressed his concern with the premier's 
visit, reminding that Latvia had signed the harmful agreement 
with Russia after the visit of the Latvian premier to the United 
States. "I believe that our head of government, the government 
and the Riigikogu [parliament], supported by the people, remain 
firm and will not allow any obligations to Russian bases or 
retired military be imposed on Estonia," Niitsoo said. 
  MP K. Jaak Roosaare claimed at yesterday's demonstration at 
the Russian naval HQ that the United States intend to donate 10 
million dollars worth of military aid to Estonia in 1995. 
Roosaare referred to a "reliable U.S. Administration official" 
he had met at his recent visit there. 

