BFN 

<F P=106> [By Susie Weldon] </F>
  [Text] Viral hepatitis infections surged in 1992, with 
more than twice as many cases recorded as in the previous year, 
according to statistics just released by the Department of 
Health. More people were also diagnosed as having sexually 
transmitted diseases, died of lung cancer and heart disease, or 
were admitted to hospital because of injury or poisoning. 
  The department's annual report for 1992-93 shows that 4,357 
hepatitis cases were reported in 1992 compared with 1,801 in 
1991. Almost all were hepatitis A, 157 were hepatitis B and 301 
were classified as neither A nor B. The report said the 
infections were due to eating raw or badly cooked seafood from 
Hong Kong's polluted waters. Other figures in the report show 
Hong Kong people died from the same serious diseases, in about 
the same proportions, in 1992 as in the previous year. 
  The biggest killers were cancers, heart diseases and 
cerebrovascular diseases, which together accounted for almost 
two-thirds of all deaths. As in the previous year, lung cancer 
killed more men and women than any other tumour, causing 2,761 
deaths in 1992. Most of these were due to smoking, the 
department said. 
  Liver cancer and naspharyngeal cancer were the second and 
third most common tumours among men, compared to breast and 
colon cancer among women. Although slightly fewer people died 
of a heart attack in 1992 -- 1,785 men and women -- overall 
deaths from heart disease rose by about 400, to 5,359. 
  More babies died in that year because they were born too 
small. Almost 24 percent (83 deaths) of infant mortalities in 
1992 were blamed on immaturity, compared with about 15 percent 
(67 deaths) the previous year. 
  A staggering 82,800 patients were treated in hospital 
because 
of injury and poisoning in 1992, making the category the leading 
cause of hospital admission. Of the 1,693 deaths from injury and 
poisoning -- the fifth biggest cause of death in 1992 -- almost 
45 percent were self inflicted or due to suicide. The other 
main causes of hospital admission were circulatory diseases 
(67,800), cancer (65,000) and normal delivery (54,600). 
  Nearly 3,000 more people were diagnosed with sexually 
transmitted diseases in 1992, making a total of 13,257 cases. 
Almost 60 percent of these were in men aged between 2040 years. 
One man died from syphilis. 
  More than 5,000 people were treated in hospital for "the 
effects of a foreign body entering through orifice," while about 
2,560 were admitted because of complications arising from 
previous medical or surgical care. 
  Doctors were unable to diagnose the illness in about 11,300 
cases. Almost 3,400 people died because they were killed or 
fatally injured by other people. One person died because of 
injuries resulting from "operation of war" in 1992, the report 
says. 

