CSO 

<F P=106> [Article: "Cost-Effective Optoelectric Chips"; Subhead: </F>
"Brits Improve Process for Production of Porous Silicon"] 
  [Text] Frankfurt--Extremely porous crystalline silicon can 
be used in circuits to emit light in the visible spectrum range. 
This phenomenon, discovered in 1991 by British scientist Leigh 
Canham, enables production of new, cost-effective opto-electric 
chips for communications engineering. To fabricate the highly 
porous silicon Canham employed a then special electro-chemical 
caustic technique that since then has turned out to be hard to 
control. He has now perfected a modified production technique 
that can be better controlled and directed. 
  This new technique makes use of a supercritical fluid and is 
characterized as "supercritical drying." It results in the 
ability to remove the fluid used to create the pores in the 
supercritical state without being able, in the process, to 
result in the development of addition-reaction films by the 
fluid with the silicon. Additionally, no shrinkage phenomena 
surface, so that the size and structure of the pores remain 
fully intact. 
  The special drying technique has been used so far for the 
production of porous solids that likewise display extremely high 
porosity. Even in the case of silicon it creates the desired 
porosity by nearly more than 95 percent of the silicon's volume. 
Preliminary sample materials, produced still using laboratory 
techniques, reveal an extremely uniform crystalline structure of 
columnar crystals that guarantee high solidity. Porous silicon 
is especially advantageous since it is considerably cheaper to 
produce than film-like gallium arsenide structures that have 
been used until now for experimental optoelectronic circuits. 
For further information: DRA, Malvern, Worcester WR14 3PS, 
United Kingdom. 


