Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] Bratislava, March 23 (CTK) -- Vice-Governor of the 
Slovak National Bank Marian Tkac denied accusations of 
incompetence and collaboration with the former Czechoslovak 
communist secret police, the StB, at a press conference today. 
  The accusations were cited as reasons for his dismissal, 
which parliament voted for today. The final decision on the 
matter belongs, however, to President Michal Kovac. 
  "If my name does figure in StB documents I believe the 
courts 
will show it was added later," he said. 
  Accusations of professional incompetence arise from the 
"Indian bank" affair in which Tkac signed a fake bill of 
exchange depriving the Slovak treasury of $4.2 million. In his 
defense Tkac stated that after his mistake he immediately took 
steps which assured Slovakia lost "not a cent." 
  Tkac also resolutely denied involvement in the forgery of 
1,000 crown Slovak-stamped Czechoslovak banknotes which led to 
their sudden removal from circulation last autumn. 
  The coalition is said to have rejected him because he had 
been "at least for a while in every party." Tkac denied this, 
saying he was only ever a member of the Communist Party -- 
before quitting it a month after the revolution in December 1989. 
  "The Slovaks are an envious and mean-spirited nation and 
disparage...the work of people willing to do something for 
them," he declared. He said until the president's decision he 
would still feel vice-governor and wanted to continue to serve 
and aid Slovakia to prosperity. 

