BFN 

  [Text] Tallinn, Apr 08, BNS -- The Estonian Statistics 
Department reports that the consumer price index [CPI] rose by 
8.9 percent in March compared to the previous month. The 
figure, which is one of the biggest in the post-currency reform 
period, exceeded even the most pessimistic forecasts. 
  Goods and services went up by 5.2 percent in January and by 
5.5 percent in February. 
  Viktoria Trasanov, head of the Statistics Department's price 
statistics service, told BNS the increase in the CPI is first 
and foremost attributable to the rising of rents and communal 
transport and telephone tariffs. 
  Services went up by 15.5 percent in March and goods, by 5.3 
percent. Food prices rose by 7.5 percent and manufactured 
goods, by 1.5 percent. Goods and services cost last month 50.5 
percent more than in March 1993. 
  Housing expenditures grew last month the most, by 18.5 
percent. Milk and eggs rose by 13.3 percent; transport and 
communications cost 9.7 percent more; meat and fish went up by 
8.2 percent; and flour and cereals, as well as fruit and 
vegetables, rose by 8 percent. Outlays on health dropped by a 
negligible 1.1 percent. 
  The March inflation rate exceeded the Bank of Estonia 
forecasts of a rise of up to 5.68 percent. Trasanov said the 
central bank built its forecast on an up to 10-percent increase 
in rents, but actually the rents redoubled early in the month. 
  Inflation hit record high in Estonia in November 1992, when 
it reached 9.5 percent. 

