BFN 

  [Text] The counting of votes in South Africa's [RSA] first 
multiracial elections in the country's history. [as heard] 
Tunisia, being a country committed to the principles of 
democracy and political plurality, which it consolidated in 
practice, has interacted with this event in South Africa. On 
this occasion the Ministry of Foreign Affairs issued a 
statement, which said that Tunisia today praises the holding of 
the first multiracial elections in South Africa's history ever 
as an important event on the regional and world scales and as a 
victory for freedom and democracy after the policy of apartheid 
had been abolished. 
  Tunisia, which has always supported the process of justice, 
freedom, equality, and peace between South Africa's ethnic 
groups through the persistent support accorded to this process 
by President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali on all international and 
regional levels, is today greeting and praising all the 
democratic forces in this country and sending expressions of 
esteem to the African National Party's leader, Nelson Mandela, 
and to President Frederik de Klerk for the political wisdom and 
courage they have shown and that allowed the success of the 
democratic process within the framework of South Africa's unity 
and the interests of all Africa's peoples. 
  On this occasion Tunisia congratulates the people of South 
Africa on this historic gain embodied in all its full civil 
rights and wishes the South African people a promising future 
under dignity and consensus after the abolition of all aspects 
of apartheid. 

