Language: <F P=105> Armenian </F>
Article Type:CSO 

<F P=106> [Report by Ashot Aghababyan: "Tangible Results of Preventive </F>
Measures: Minister of the Interior Vano Siradeghyan's Press 
Conference"] 
  [Excerpts] Before answering the reporters' questions at the 
press conference yesterday, Minister of the Interior Vano 
Siradeghyan summarized the work of his ministry with figures. 
  The total number of crimes in 1993 was 19 percent less than 
that for 1992. There was a 26-percent drop in criminal 
investigations. The number of intentional and attempted murders 
dropped by 13 percent, criminal acts resulting in bodily injury 
by 13.6 percent and thefts of state and public property by 65.5 
percent. The number of crimes committed in not clearly known 
circumstances declined by 32 percent. In 1993, 430 cases of use, 
possession and distribution of narcotics were uncovered. Of 
these, 47 cases involved narcotics sellers, all of whom are in 
jail. It can be said that all narcotics traffickers in Yerevan 
are in prison. The number of car thefts declined by 60.7 
percent. This was the result of better car security measures and 
the scarcity of gasoline. In 1993, 53 cases of circulating 
counterfeit currency (Russian rubles and American dollars) were 
uncovered, but the location of their printing presses has not 
been determined. Crimes in public areas declined by 37 percent. 
  Criminal offenses by juveniles (402 cases in 1993) and theft 
of private property are on the rise. The latter category has 
been growing steadily especially in the winter. No change has 
been observed in offenses committed by recidivists: 630 formerly 
convicted persons committed offenses again. [passage omitted] 
<H5>  Rumors Not Serious </H5>
  [Question] There are rumors that there have been 
assassination attempts against you, that you are preparing to 
become prime minister and that you want to move to France. 
  [Siradeghyan] I said on one occasion that there are jocular 
rumors that I will be named prime minister but that these rumors 
are not taken so lightheartedly by the government. I have no 
aspirations for that office. As for my departure from Armenia, 
they have been talking about that for two years. Denying them 
every time may appear comical. At one time they said that we 
were giving Karabakh away. Did we? It is those same people who 
are spreading these rumors. Life and time have proven them 
wrong. All these must be taken with some humor. As for the 
assassination attempt, it is impossible to mount an 
assassination attempt against me. There is no man in Armenia who 
would want to do that. As for my going abroad, there is no place 
in the world I would like to go and live, unless they expel me 
from Armenia. It is more secure and easier to live here. Here I 
have relatives, brothers and friends. Do not take those rumors 
seriously. [passage omitted] 
<H5>  Right To Carry Arms </H5>
  [Question] It is extremely dangerous to walk in the 
capital's 
streets at night. Is it not time to allow citizens to carry 
arms--at least gas pistols--for self-defense? 
  [Siradeghyan] I am convinced that the number of criminal 
offenses will drop if we allow citizens to carry arms. However, 
I oppose the idea of gas pistols when the other side has real 
pistols. With the approval of the collegium of our ministry I 
have allowed certain individuals to carry arms. In general, the 
people who are given such permits are individuals associated 
with government bodies and persons working for businesses and 
banks. However, the number of such persons is very small. Our 
ministry as well as the relevant committee of the Supreme 
Council and the prosecutor's office are drafting laws for 
private gun ownership. I am hopeful that the Supreme Council 
will enact that law this year. I think that citizens must be 
given the right to carry arms so that everyone knows that the 
other person may have a weapon. I consider that the primary 
preventive measure against crime. [passage omitted] 
<H5>  Possible Coup Ruled Out </H5>
  [Question] Recently there has been talk about a possible 
coup 
d'etat. 
  [Siradeghyan] What do you think? Do you think that such a 
thing can happen in Armenia when Vazgen Sargsyan is the minister 
of state, Serzh Sargsyan is the minister of defense, I am the 
minister of the interior, and Samvel Babayan is the commander of 
the Karabakh forces? If you think that in Armenia there are even 
10 armed people outside of these structures, you are wrong. 
There are not. If there are please show me. A coup can be 
mounted only by the military structure if it joins forces with 
at least two of the structures I mentioned. Do not believe 
fables and boasts. There is no such force in Armenia. [passage 
omitted] 

