BFN 

<F P=106> [Unattributed report: "First Kurd Deported"] </F>
  [Text] Bonn -- In Baden-Wuerttemberg, the authorities 
dealing with aliens have deported to Turkey the first of the 
Kurds who were arrested during an illegal demonstration in 
Mannheim on 27 March. This was reported yesterday by Interior 
Minister Frieder Birzele in Stuttgart. One of the three Kurds 
who were expelled from Bavaria has already appealed to the 
Administrative Court in Augsburg. Federal Justice Minister 
Sabine Leutheusser-Schnarrenberg's (FDP) [Free Democratic Party] 
negative stance toward the expulsions from Bavaria has 
encountered criticism within the FDP. FDP acting chairman 
Wolfgang Gerhardt warned that the credibility of the rule of law 
might be cast into doubt if violent offenders cannot be deported. 
  Detlef Kleinert, legal expert of the FDP faction in the 
Bundestag, told DIE WELT that the Federal Republic cannot permit 
foreigners to settle their differences in Germany. Kleinert 
expressed the need for an agreement with Turkey whereby Turkey 
would pledge not to subject Kurds to torture or impose the death 
penalty on them. The relevant talks between the Interior, 
Foreign, and Justice Ministries are being delayed because of the 
FDP dispute. The conclusion of the agreement can be expected in 
a few weeks at the very earliest. 
  Lower Saxony deported 31 Kurds to Turkey in January and 
February. 

