BFN 

  [Text] Taiyuan, May 30 (XINHUA) -- More and more 
international financial aid is pouring into the poverty-stricken 
areas of north China's Shanxi Province to enliven the local 
economy, according to an official of the province. 
  The official said the majority of the international funding 
went to the construction of infrastructural facilities to pave 
the way for the economic development of these areas. 
  The latest data shows that the Xiaoyi-Liulin railway, a 
project built with a loan of 39.7 million U.S. dollars from the 
Asian bank, has now opened to traffic. 
  The bank has also offered another 65 million U.S. dollars to 
build the Liulin Power Plant, the biggest of its sort in the 
province. 
  Also, the World Bank has provided 47 million U.S. dollars to 
build a water-control project in the Weifen River area in 
Xinxian County of northwestern Shanxi and an agricultural 
project in Luliang Prefecture, a revolutionary base during the 
war of resistance against Japan (1937-45) and China's war of 
liberation (1945-49). 
  In 1992, the prefecture was rendered gratis grain assistance 
of more than 78,000 tons of wheat by the joint UN-FAO [Food and 
Agriculture Organization] World Food Program. 
  Japan has also provided farm machinery and fertilizer worth 
30 million yen to enrich the soil in the area. 
  So far, the prefecture has built 46 foreign-funded joint 
ventures, 27 of which were built in 1993, with a total foreign 
investment of 13.62 million U.S. dollars. 
  With its fast-growing economy, the prefecture's tourism 
industry is also developing at a considerable speed. In 1993, 
it received 3,575 foreign tourists. 

