Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:BFN 

<F P=106> [From "News Bulletin" No. 466] </F>
  [Text] Vilnius, March 28, ELTA -- President Algirdas 
Brazauskas told a news conference on Monday [28 March] the 
co-ordination of actions of the three Baltic presidents was a 
necessary condition to get closer to the political, economical 
and security structures of Europe. 
  A lot of attention in the meeting of the three presidents 
was 
paid at the co-operation with Visegrad countries. 
  Estonian President Lennart Meri offered a concept 
"Northern-Southern axis". This would mean a formula "5+3+4" 
(five Nordic, three Baltic and four Visegrad states). Estonian 
and Latvian presidents appreciated ratification of 
Lithuanian-Polish international treaty. This agreement is a 
step towards Europe, especially that Poland is an associate 
member of the European Union. Those who contradict signing of 
the treaty with Polish President Lech Walesa in April in 
Vilnius, are serving the isolationist policies. 
  Estonian and Lithuanian presidents also appreciated 
ratification of four Latvian-Russian agreements. Latvian 
President Guntis Ulmanis told the summit there were various as 
well as contrary opinions about them. The step made by Latvia 
may be useful also for Estonia which is to begin a new round of 
talks with Russia in April, Brazauskas said. 
  Although the Baltic presidents confirmed an agreement on 
their regular summits and co-ordinated activity, the Baltic 
council was not created. Such a council, similar to the Nordic 
Council, should involve broader - parliamentary and governmental 
- structures. 
  They agreed to arrange agreements on various issues, e.g. a 
free trade agreement which is to come into force in April 1. On 
the governmental level, an agreement on social guarantees for 
citizens of any Baltic state working or studying in the other 
Baltic state, will be arranged. 

