BFN 

  [Text] Reports from Sanaa say the ruling regime there is 
imposing very strict censorship on the internal and external 
news media to effect a comprehensive media blackout about what 
is going in the country. The regime there has resorted to 
supplying the external news media only with information the 
regime wants published. 
  Meanwhile, reports indicate that the military authorities in 
Sanaa have resorted in the last few days to sabotaging the 
reception boosters of the transmissions of Democratic Republic 
of Yemen television and jamming its radio broadcasting. This is 
to avoid the scandals affecting the Sanaa news media because 
they are broadcasting lies to the citizens and hiding the 
military failures of the Sanaa forces on the battlefronts. 
  It is known that the military authorities issued orders to 
close down the YEMEN TIMES just two days after 'Ali 'Abdallah 
Salih sparked the war. This was done after the paper published 
information and figures on the number of the victims of the war. 
Amnesty International protested against this step, which targets 
the freedom of the press about which the ruling regime in Sanaa 
boasts. Amnesty International and human rights organizations 
have also protested the demolition of a number of political 
party headquarters, including the Yemeni Socialist Party's 
Central Committee headquarters, which was completely demolished. 
The offices of its Central Committee newspaper were also 
destroyed within the framework of the feverish activities of the 
ruling regime in Sanaa to silence all opposition. 

