Language: <F P=105> Arabic </F>
Article Type:BFN 

<F P=106> [Editorial: "The Jordanian-French Talks"] </F>
  [Text] The agenda of the meeting between His Majesty King 
Husayn and the visiting French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe 
expanded to include a number of important topics, including 
regional and bilateral issues, the Middle East peace process, 
and latest developments, especially the Palestinian-Israeli 
agreement recently concluded in Cairo. 
  This meeting was a good opportunity for His Majesty King 
Husayn to emphasize anew the constants of Jordan's firm position 
in supporting the ongoing peace process and realizing the 
aspired peace in the region based on the principles of 
international legitimacy, and the UN and Security Council 
resolutions led by Resolutions 242 and 338. 
  In view of the vital role France is playing in the Bonsian 
crisis, whether its leading role within the EC or the Security 
Council, it was natural for the Jordanian-French talks to deal 
with the Bosnian conflict and to discuss ways of cooperation on 
bringing an end to the tragic situation of the Muslims there, 
and realize security, stability, and peace in that region. 
  The broad background of the Jordanian-French relations and 
the continued positive development in the history of cooperation 
between Amman and Paris have always allowed for the exchange of 
views on the basis of mutual respect regarding many issues and 
subjects that concern the two friendly countries, including 
economic and cultural cooperation between Jordan and France. 
  We know beforehand that France can always play a more vital, 
if not pioneering, role in this region's issues, especially 
since this leading European state has continued to enjoy 
political broadmindedness, and its vital role in the Middle East 
has continued to be welcomed by all parties to the conflict. 
This qualifies France to play a welcome role in entrenching 
stability, realizing peace, and accelerating the development 
process. 

