BFN 

<F P=106> [From the "National Newscast"] </F>
  [Text] The Joint Special Command raided two communications 
bases of the Cali Cartel a few hours ago, thus it is slowly 
undermining the cartel's infrastructure. So far this year, 150 
people have been arrested and 18 clandestine landing strips 
destroyed. The latest raids have weakened the cartel's powerful 
communications system. 
  The first communications base was raided north of Cali. The 
Candelaria Limitada brick company was used as a front for the 
operation. The "National Newscast" has learned that alleged 
drug trafficker Diego Montoya Sanchez, alias Don Diego, owns the 
company. The authorities are currently pursuing Montoya. During 
the raid, the authorities located checking accounts, financial 
statements, seven hand-held communications radios, battery 
chargers, and batteries. They also found documents of (Acetel 
Limitada), another communications company, with the 
registrations for 20 hand-held radios and permits from the 
Communications Ministry. The authorities found copies of checks 
for over 500 million pesos. The Joint Special Command raided a 
second company, (Compania Conalviver), also north of Cali. The 
communications center had no permit from the Communications 
Ministry. The command seized four screens, monitors, 
communication radios, and other equipment. According to the 
state's intelligence corps, these communication companies cover 
the entire Valle del Cauca Department and serve as fronts for 
the Cali Cartel to make transactions and contact drug 
traffickers at the service of that cartel. 

