Language: <F P=105> Chinese </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] A foreign tourist illegally carrying more than 120 
grams of marijuana was arrested at the Shoudu Airport's security 
inspection station. This is the first time that the station has 
cracked a case of a passenger carrying marijuana. 
  At about 1930 on 28 January, when this passenger was 
undergoing a security inspection, the exit alarm bell went off. 
Li Jianhua, an inspector at the second section of the security 
inspection, found that the cigarette cases that the passenger 
carried were full of a solid yellow material and another 
cigarette case had six cigarettes without tobacco inside. 
Through the laboratory test, the customhouse maintained that 
the solid yellow substance is marijuana. 
  This passenger is from Canada and his name is Bhagg. He is a 
foreign teacher at a certain institute in Beijing. He carried 
the marijuana and attempted to take it himself. 
  On 1719 on 31 January, the security inspection station of 
the 
Shoudu International Airport discovered another passenger 
illegally carrying marijuana. 
  The alarm went off when the passenger went through the 
international personal safety inspection section. Inspector 
Gong Fanying found 20 grams of marijuana in his socks. This 
passenger was from Xinjiang. He planned to take flight No. TK 
753 on the same evening to Turkey via Pakistan. It was reported 
that this is the fourth case [as published] of illegal 
possession of narcotics discovered at the security inspection 
station of the Shoudu International Airport. 

