Article   Type:BFN 

  [Editorial Report] The following is a compilation of 
reports on drug seizures and arrests related to drug trafficking 
monitored through 10 March. 
<H5>  Argentina </H5>
  National Border Police personnel on 7 March seized nearly 27 
kg of cocaine in Oran, Salta Province, near the Bolivian border. 
The drug was in the luggage of two Nigerians and one Jamaican 
who traveled in a bus that had just entered Argentina. One of 
the Nigerians was identified as Nnamdi Robert Male, a soccer 
player for a very popular Nigerian soccer team. They were 
planning to go to Buenos Aires and then board a plane for 
London, where they were to sell the drug. (Buenos Aires CLARIN 
in Spanish 8 March 94 p 40) 
<H5>  Bolivia </H5>
  The Special Antinarcotics Force dismantled a cocaine factory 
and arrested eight people in a jungle area between El Tinto and 
Quimome, Chiquitos Province. (Santa Cruz EL MUNDO in Spanish 28 
Feb 94 p 6) 
<H5>  Brazil </H5>
  Crack consumption has increased in the upper and middle 
classes of Sao Paulo, where most of the drug addicts are crack 
consumers. The State Narcotics Investigation Department, Denarc, 
reported that 223 people, including 81 16- to 18-year-olds, 
underwent treatment for crack in 1993, an increase of 20 percent 
compared with 1992. In the year's first two months, Denarc 
seized an amount of cocaine equivalent to that seized in the 
first four months of 1993. (Sao Paulo FOLHA DE SAO PAULO in 
Portuguese 7 Mar 94 p 1) 
<H5>  Chile </H5>
  Carabineros intensified their actions to stop cocaine and 
other drugs coming from the northern part of the country. In 
Calama, OS-7 personnel arrested Pedro Vargas with 3 kg of 
cocaine hydrochloride and 2 kg of cocaine paste hidden inside 
three tires; in Iquique, they arrested Carlos Zurita, 24, and 
Juan Henriquez, 30, with 628 grams of cocaine. They also 
arrested Juan Arce in Antofagasta, and Jorge Diaz, 24, Patricio 
Yanez, 31, Julio Araya, 25, and Marjorie Torres, 24, in 
Santiago. (Santiago EL MERCURIO in Spanish 20 Feb 94 p C9) 
  OS-7 Carabineros seized 54 kg of cocaine in Arica in the 
possession of drug traffickers Carmen Condori and Luis Vilca. 
Carabineros reported seizing more than 120 kg of cocaine and 54 
metric tons of marijuana so far this year. (Santiago Television 
Nacional de Chile Imagen Internacional in Spanish 0000 GMT 6 Mar 
94) 
  Investigative Police in Talca discovered almost 3,000 kg of 
marijuana valued at about $10 million. The marijuana was 
discovered in three different Naranjos properties in San Rafael, 
which is northeast of Talca. Police discovered 1,753 marijuana 
plants, which is equivalent to 2,830 kg. Six people have been 
arrested. (Santiago Television Nacional de Chile Imagen 
Internacional in Spanish 0000 GMT 10 Mar 94) 
<H5>  Peru </H5>
  On 18 February, Army patrols invaded the township of 
Campanilla, Mariscal Caceres Province, San Martin Department, 
where they destroyed five clandestine cocaine paste processing 
laboratories. They also seized 10 kg of washed cocaine paste 
ready to be processed, 2 kg of cocaine paste, and chemicals. 
(Lima EXPRESO in Spanish 19 Feb 94 p A14) 
  National Police seized 60 kg of cocaine paste and arrested 
Juan Manuel Leal Ramirez, 39, and Luis Martin Guevara Cabrera, 
34, at the Changas checkup post in northeast Lima. The drug was 
hidden in the false-bottomed floor of a pickup truck. (Lima EL 
COMERCIO in Spanish 20 Feb 94 p A17) 
  The Antidrug Division on 25 February seized several 
kilograms 
of cocaine paste, high-caliber weapons, and a large amount of 
U.S. dollars, and arrested nine drug traffickers in the township 
of Bellavista, San Martin Department, Lower Huallaga zone. A 
police source said they are members of the El Ministro cartel, 
led by Colombian Edgardo Simeon Vargas, a powerful drug 
trafficker who has been operating in the Huallaga Valley for 
many years. Vargas has been supplying the drug to the Cali 
cartel since the arrest of Demetrio Limoniel Penaherrera, aka 
Vaticano. The detainees are Colombians Edgard Castaneda, William 
Garazun, John Gonzales, Jose Landazuri, and Daniel Gonzales. The 
names of the Peruvians have not been disclosed. (Lima EXPRESO in 
Spanish 26 Feb 94 p A14) 
  On 25 February, Marine, Army, and National Police forces 
raided a cocaine laboratory in the township of El Diamante, in 
Boca Manu, Madre de Dios Department. They seized more than 3 
metric tons of washed cocaine paste and arrested Santiago Urquia 
Campos, 22, aka Shanty; Victor Kalinoswky Apaza, 24, aka Coto; 
Sueco Valles Flores, 25, aka Mocho; Jorge Yabar Quispe, 25, aka 
Panacho; Gerardo Gomez Zorrilla, 24; Ernesto Fernandez Moreno, 
44, aka Ronsoco; Wilber Arroyo Axampa, 25, aka Jilguero; Ricardo 
Guerra Gritelli, 35, aka Pana; Maria Aurora Urquia Campos, 33; 
Vilma Cardenas Zorrilla 21; Marisa Soto Chayna, 19; Victor 
Palacios Ramos, 21; and Jorge Villanueva Velasquez, 24. This is 
the biggest drug seizure ever in Peru. (Lima EL COMERCIO in 
Spanish 3 March 94 p A11) 

