BFN 

  [Text] The third session of the Council of the Baltic Sea 
States foreign ministers ended at noon today. At the close of 
the session the foreign ministers adopted a joint communique in 
which they note with satisfaction that political and economic 
relations between the countries on the Baltic Sea have advanced 
considerably. The foreign ministers are satisfied with the 
agreements between the European Union [EU], Finland, Sweden, and 
Norway as well as with the association agreement between the EU 
and Poland. The ministers are also in support of the free trade 
talks between the Baltic countries and the EU and hope that the 
EU and Russia will conclude a friendship and cooperation 
agreement in the near future. 
  In their joint communique, the foreign ministers welcome the 
political and economic changes in Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, 
Poland, and Russia. They also emphasize the importance of the 
withdrawal of Russian troops from Lithuania and the importance 
of the troop withdrawal agreement concluded between Latvia and 
Russia. The foreign ministers repeated their call for foreign 
troops to be withdrawn from Estonia and Latvia, swiftly, 
completely, and in an orderly manner. 
  The foreign ministers considered it highly necessary to make 
cooperation on transport and power engineering more effective 
between the member states and emphasized the importance of sea 
transport and the development of ports. The communique also 
emphasized the need to strengthen nuclear safety within the 
Baltic basin, and supported the proposal of the working group on 
nuclear and radiation safety attached to the Council of the 
Baltic Sea States, to provide technical and legal assistance to 
the dismantlement of the Russian nuclear reactors located at 
Paldiski. 

