BFN 

  [Text] Havana, 14 Apr (DPA) -- Cuba announced today that 
it produced 305,000 tons of oil during the first quarter of 
1994, surpassing by 112 percent the goal set for that period. 
The state-owned National Radio Newscast (NNR) revealed that the 
island plans to extract 1.2 million tons of crude oil this year, 
100,000 tons more than the record amount extracted in 1993. 
  Local oil production, known for its high density and sulfur 
content, represents approximately 16 percent of the oil Cuba 
might have available this year to keep its cement, nickel, and 
glass industries operating. 
  According to NNR, daily hydrocarbon production represents 
approximately 15 percent of the country's fuel needs at this 
stage, which is characterized as the worst economic crisis since 
1959. However, the newscast explained that Cuban crude oil used 
to generate electricity represents 30 percent of the total fuel 
used for that purpose. 
  The drastic decline in deliveries by the former Soviet Union 
to Cuba (from 13 million tons a year until 1989 to less than 6 
million last year) caused a partial paralysis in island 
transportation and continuous and prolonged power outages that 
have angered citizens. Until shortly before its formal 
disintegration in December 1991, the former USSR gave its 
Caribbean ally approximately $120 million a year in credit for 
oil exploration. 
  To balance the enormous fuel deficit, which paralyzed 
hundreds of factories, Cuban authorities encouraged the 
extraction of national crude oil and opened up the sector to 
foreign oil companies for prospecting operations. 

