BFN 

<F P=106> [Unattributed report: The New Parliament"] </F>
  [Text] The elections to the new Ukrainian parliament have 
been held. Soon, 338 people's deputies, elected as a result of 
two rounds of voting, will occupy their seats at the Supreme 
Council. Repeat elections will be held in 112 electoral 
districts. These data were quoted at a news conference on 13 
April by chairman of the Central Electoral Commission Ivan 
Yemets. 
  He said that the elections had proceeded very actively on an 
alternative basis and in acute political struggle. Broad 
openness was ensured at all stages, something that observers 
from numerous international organizations also noted. 
  Ivan Yemets briefed reporters on the party composition of 
the 
new parliament. According to tentative data, 89 deputies, 
nominated by parties, have been elected to the Supreme Council. 
The Communist Party has won the greatest number of seats -- 59. 
Rukh [Ukraine's People's Movement for Perestroyka] has 12 
representatives [in parliament] and Socialists and Republicans 
-- six seats each. However, in view of the fact that individual 
deputies were nominated by labor collectives, the political 
spectrum has a somewhat different character. More than 25 
percent of the parliamentarians are Communists, about 6 percent 
represent Rukh, 5 percent are Socialists, and 4 percent are 
representatives of the Peasants' Party. There are 169 
nonaligned deputies. As in the preceding Supreme Council, there 
are also few women in the new one -- just 12. 

