BFN 

<F P=106> [Communique No. 22 issued by 9th National Assembly's fifth </F>
Session in Hanoi on 23 June] 
  [Text] The National Assembly held a plenary session in the 
conference hall on 23 June 1994 under the direction of Chairman 
Nong Duc Manh. 
  In the morning, the National Assembly was briefed by Foreign 
Minister Nguyen Manh Cam on the results of the official 
friendship visits to the Ukraine, Kazakhstan, and the Russian 
Federation from 8-17 June 1994 by our government delegation led 
by Prime Minister Vo Van Kiet and on a number of other 
diplomatic activities. The deputies heard Vu Mao, member of the 
National Assembly Standing Committee and head of the session 
secretariat, present a draft resolution on the termination of 
Mr. Mai Thuc Lan's positions as member of the National Assembly 
Standing Committee and head of the National Assembly Economy and 
Budget Committee pending another work assignment. The National 
Assembly passed this resolution by a show of hands. 
  In the afternoon, the National Assembly heard Prime Minister 
Vo Van Kiet present his views on a number of important issues 
that need to be resolved to guarantee success for the 
implementation of the tasks for 1994. 
  The National Assembly heard Vu Mao, member of the National 
Assembly Standing Committee and head of the session secretariat, 
present a draft resolution on the ratification of the United 
Nations' 1982 Convention on the Law of the Sea. The National 
Assembly voted to pass this resolution by an absolute majority 
of votes. 
  The military band played the national anthem at 1500 after 
National Assembly Chairman Nong Duc Manh finished his closing 
speech. The fifth session of the Ninth National Assembly of the 
Socialist Republic of Vietnam has ended in success. 

