BFN 

  [Text] The Greek Government hopes the Turkish side will 
show goodwill so that tension in bilateral relations will be 
relieved. Commenting on a statement made yesterday by his 
Turkish counterpart, Ferhat Ataman, Foreign Ministry spokesman 
Konstandinos Bikas said that Greece cannot consider it a 
goodwill move that Turkey is violating Greek national airspace 
with aircraft that do not carry missiles. Bikas stressed that 
the Greek Air Force must do its duty to defend the country's 
sovereignty by carrying the arms that it considers necessary. 
  Greek Ambassador in Washington Loukas Tsilas plans to lodge 
a 
demarche about U.S. State Department spokesman Michael McCurry's 
statement yesterday questioning the extent of Greek national 
airspace. The airspace was set at 10 miles in 1931 according to 
a presidential decree and until 1974 was respected even by the 
Turkish side. Bikas explained that since 1931 Greece has 
extended its territorial waters to 10 nautical miles to define 
its airspace. He said: Our side, however, maintains its 
territorial waters at six nautical miles, although it is its 
sovereign right to extend them to 12 if and when it considers it 
necessary. 
  A short time ago, government spokesman Evangelos Venizelos 
said that the U.S. State Department spokesman's statement was 
misinterpreted or was an off-hand handling of the issue. 
Venizelos reiterated that the Greek position on this issue are 
well known: they are non-negotiable sovereign rights. 
  Referring to Turkish President Suleyman Demirel's statement 
about a possible Greek expansion of territorial waters to 12 
miles, the spokesman stressed that, although the Turkish 
president's remarks were calm compared to past ones, they do not 
stop recycling the well-known problem of artificial tension 
between the two countries. 

