CSO 

  [Editorial Report] In an article published in Belgrade in 
BORBA on 19 May, page 5, under the title "Minister Favors Some, 
Ignores Others," the Independent Association of Journalists of 
Serbia [NUNS] points out that a recently proposed law which 
would require all news media to obtain government approval prior 
to receiving financial support from any foreign source proves 
that "the Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia has 
not abandoned its idea of achieving complete control over all 
the media in the country." The media which might be granted such 
approval would be required to identify their published materials 
and their radio and television programs as being financed by a 
foreign source. This requirement, according to NUNS, "represents 
an attempt to satanize the media which are not favored or 
financially supported by the government." NUNS also points out 
that Ratomir Vico, minister of information of the Republic of 
Serbia, had not even responded to their request for a meeting. 
On the other hand, NUNS adds, he has offered his full support to 
the Association of Journalists of Serbia, an organization that 
was "unexpectedly reactivated following a prolonged period of 
inactivity." Thus, NUNS accuses the minister of favoring one 
association while ignoring another. 
  On the same page, BORBA publishes another article titled 
"Death Sentence for the Independent Media." In this article, the 
International Federation of Journalists [MEN] states that "if 
this law is adopted, it will mean a death sentence for the only 
independent voices existing in the country and refute all 
illusions that the Serbian Government has any concern for 
democracy." MEN further notes that the government's main 
objective is to use this new law against such periodicals as 
BORBA and VREME and such radio stations as "B 92" and "Studio 
B," which in many respects depend on foreign support. 

