BFN 

  [Text] Nairobi, May 3 (AFP) -- Rwandan rebels and 
government representatives gathered Tuesday [3 May] in the 
northern Tanzanian town of Arusha, where the United Nations and 
Tanzania are trying to broker peace talks, diplomats said. 
  UN envoy to Rwanda Jacques-Roger Booh-Booh met separately 
with both sides to persuade the rebels to open face-to-face 
talks with the interim government which they do not recognise. 
  The rebel Rwanda Patriotic Front has ruled out a dialogue 
with the "government of killers" and said its representatives 
would go to Arusha only to brief Tanzanian officials on their 
position in the Rwandan conflict. 
  Organisation of African Unity Secretary-General Salim Ahmed 
Salim and Tanzanian Prime Minister John Malecela, who is to 
chair the talks, were expected in Arusha later Tuesday, 
according to diplomats contacted by telephone. 
  Ten days ago Tanzania failed to bring the two sides to the 
negotiating table for an earlier round of talks, also in Arusha 
where the rebela and government signed peace accords last August 
to end a three-year civil war. 
  The government delegation failed to turn up, and the rebels 
said that they would refuse to talk to them even if they did. 
  But the rebels have agreed to meet military officers to 
discuss ways of halting the carnage in Rwanda, which has cost 
more than 100,000 lives since the death of President Juvenal 
Habyarimana in an April 6 rocket attack on his plane rekindled 
the war and plunged the tiny central African country into chaos. 
  The ethnic and political bloodbath has sparked a massive 
refugee exodus. Between a quarter and half a million Rwandans 
poured across the border to Tanzania last week. 

