Language: <F P=105> Spanish </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] Santa Fe de Bogota, 15 Mar (NOTIMEX) -- Colombian 
Attorney General Carlos Gustavo Arrieta has ruled out a massive 
surrender by the Cali Cartel chiefs after one of the Mafia 
chiefs surrendered to justice last Saturday. The official 
considers the surrender of Julio Fabio Urdinola Grajales who 
last Saturday turned himself in to one of the representatives of 
the Office of the Prosecutor General in Palmira, some 400 km 
southwest of Bogota, to be "an isolated case." Arrieta 
reiterated: "I do not think that the most powerful members of 
the Cali Cartel are about to surrender to justice." 
  Late in 1993 the lawyers of the powerful Cali Cartel began 
to 
contact Colombian justice officials to negotiate the cartel 
members' surrender in exchange for legal benefits such as a 
reduction in sentences and house arrests, but the government 
rejected this. Arrieta said that the remodeling work being done 
in the Palmira jail is almost finished, and this is where the 
leaders of the organization responsible for 80 percent of the 
cocaine shipments to the United States will be sent. He 
mentioned that Urdinola "is not an important man" within the 
cartel and that the authorities were fully aware of his 
"desperate plans" to surrender to justice. 
  According to the Colombian media quoting reports from state 
security organizations, the surrender of important Cali Cartel 
members -- including leader Gilberto Rodriguez Orejuela -- is 
imminent. 

