Language: <F P=105> Spanish </F>
Article Type:BFN 

<F P=106> [Telephone report by Baltazar Jimenez, reporter for EL SOL </F>
DE CHILPANCINGO newspaper, in Chilpancingo, Guerrero State; from 
the "ACIR Radio News" newscast] 
  [Text] [Announcer] We reported to you at the start of this 
cast that three Guerrero State public security policemen were 
gunned down by shotgun fire and six others are seriously 
wounded. They were ambushed in the pre-dawn hours today [as 
heard] by a dangerous gang of criminals who operate in the 
Xapotitlan, Tablas Municipality, located high up in the 
mountains, according to information supplied by Manuel Noreno 
Gonzalez, chief of Guerrero State public security. Good 
afternoon, Baltazar. 
  [Jimenez] Good afternoon. 
  [Announcer] Baltazar, what happened this morning? 
  [Jimenez] According to a note by reporter Alfredo Guzman, 
several public security patrols were ambushed yesterday by 
excited villagers who were annoyed because several poppy 
plantations were destroyed. Three policemen were killed in the 
incident. Each received more than 15 shots in addition to the 
coup d'grace. The disturbances took place in the Atlixtlac 
Municipality. Alejandrino Campo Lezma, regional public security 
commander in Tlapa de Comonfort told the Prosecutor General's 
Office authorities that Saturday [as heard] night at about 0400, 
it was decided to carry out a patrol between the village of 
(Zaltizagua) and Oxtoepec, Atlixtlac Municipality. Campo said 
that two patrols made up of 10 men in one and seven in the 
other, began walking at night and on the way found several poppy 
plantations, which they destroyed. The commander said that the 
plantations measured 10 meters by 20 meters and they found one 
or two every kilometer. 
  In his statement it was established that it was about 2000 
on 
Saturday night when they heard several rifle shots and the 
policemen hid as best they could under trees. They ran until 
they reached Oxtoepec. There they made a head count and found 
that three were missing. They immediately spoke with the 
village police chief who promised to intercede with the alleged 
attackers to allow the policemen to look for their three 
companions who had disappeared in the shoot-out. 
  The commander stated that while speaking with the village 
police chief he saw several armed persons who arrived behind 
them and spoke in a dialect. After several minutes of 
negotiation, the armed persons allowed a search for the three 
missing public security policemen. The villagers in Oxtoepec 
allowed 10 policemen to enter, but only unarmed, to search for 
their companions. The bullet- riddled bodies were found at the 
clash site. The dead policemen were each missing their AR-15 
rifles and their three spare clips. 
  The searchers say that they found no less than 70 heavily 
armed persons who threatened to shoot and kill them. [Words 
indistinct] who moments before had negotiated their entry, so 
the policemen were not harmed. 
  Yesterday at about 1900 a telephone call was received at the 
Chipalcingo coroner's office, telling them to prepare to receive 
more bodies, because seemingly another clash had taken place, 
causing the death of several public security policemen in 
several villages near Axtlistac Municipality. Lastly, this was 
not confirmed. 
  [Announcer] This is one of the most tangled areas of the 
Guerrero mountains? 
  [Jimenez] Yes, of course. 
  [Announcer] It is one of the more distant areas? 
  [Jimenez] Yes. The dead policemen are Second Commander 
Bertoldo Flores Radilla, Second Commander Artemio Salmeron 
Quinonez, and Armando Luna Venancio. Their bodies were claimed 
by their relatives and transferred to their places of origin. 
There is no information whether any arrests have been made 
because as it is Sunday there were no public security spokesmen 
to report what would be done and what action would be taken to 
arrest the guilty. 
  [Announcer] Baltazar, the bodies are already in 
Chilpancingo? 
  [Jimenez] This is not yet known. 

