BFN 

<F P=106> [By T.C. Hu] </F>
  [Text] Washington, April 11 (CNA) -- Representative Ding 
Mou-shih of the Coordination Council for North American Affairs 
Monday [11 April] expressed deep regret at the U.S. decision to 
impose trade sanctions against Taiwan for its alleged trade in 
endangered species parts and products. 
  "It is deeply regrettable that the United States has decided 
to rush ahead with sanctions against (Taiwan), despite the 
recommendation by the Standing Committee of the United Nations 
Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species (to 
postpone sanctions)," Ding, head of Taiwan's non-official 
representative in the U.S. said in a statement. 
  He said that Taiwan has made aggressive efforts to eradicate 
the trade in endangered species, adding that "we are concerned 
that sanctions will cause an unnecessary negative reaction on 
the part of our people." 
  Ding added that the Executive Yuan has approved amendments 
to 
Taiwan's wildlife conservation law that significantly increase 
punishments for those convicted of trafficking in endangered 
species, and that these amendments are expected to be passed by 
the Legislative Yuan soon. 
  Taiwan has been conducting an island-wide crackdown on 
establishments suspected of selling rhino horn and tiger parts, 
he said. Of the 519 shops that have been investigated so far, 
six were found to be selling products containing rhino horn 
powder and 22 were found to be selling tiger products, he added. 
  Ding reiterated Taiwan's commitment to eradicating the trade 
in endangered species, and said he believes that dialogue and 
cooperation rather than sanctions are the best means of 
achieving progress toward the elimination of endangered species 
trade. 

