BFN 

  [Text] Kigali, 16 Jun (AFP) -- Nearly 200 Rwandans were 
injured in fierce shelling overnight in the capital Kigali and 
two UN soldiers were seriously wounded in a grenade or mine 
blast Friday [17 June], Red Cross and UN sources said. A Red 
Cross hospital in a government-held sector of Kigali admitted 
180 soldiers and civilians injured in battles between Rwandan 
rebels and government forces, officials of the International 
Committee of the Red Cross said. 
  The two UN officers, one from Bangladesh and the other from 
Uruguay, were hurt in what was believed to have been a grenade 
or mine explosion about 20 kilometres (12 miles) north-west of 
Kigali during a reconnaissance mission on the road to the town 
of Ruhengeri, UN military sources said. No further details were 
immediately available and it was unclear who was responsible for 
the explosion. 
  Fighting erupted despite a shaky two-day-old ceasefire 
between rebel and government forces. Rebel commandos of the 
mainly Tutsi Rwandan Patriotic Front freed about 400 civilians 
in a commando raid early Friday on a church behind government 
lines where militiamen of the Hutu majority are believed to have 
abducted and killed hundreds of people. Other rebel forces 
started firing to create a diversion, and the 180 wounded 
people, including civilians and soldiers, were believed to have 
been hurt in the ensuing fighting. 

