Language: <F P=105> Portuguese </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Excerpt] The situation in Angola is not improving, and 
despite peace talks in Lusaka, the government and National Union 
for the Total Independence of Angola [UNITA] forces continue 
fighting on the ground. The province of Bie is under fire, and 
UNITA admitted moments ago that Bie is already under the control 
of government troops. There are reports that as many as 30-50 
people have been killed in today's clashes. More details from 
Paulo Juliao: 
  [Juliao] The city of Cuito, capital of Bie Province, has 
been 
again under intense shelling since 0745 hours. At the moment, 
the clashes between the government and UNITA forces are 
spreading all over Cuito. More than 30 civilians have been 
killed, and another 49 have been injured. The Luanda forces 
reported they have taken over most of the positions previously 
held by UNITA troops and have captured four UNITA soldiers, 
including an officer. The two armies have been using long-range 
artillery in the battle over control of Cuito, including 106 mm 
and 130 mm mortars and P-12 cannons. 
  In the meantime, the two armies continue to exchange 
accusations about who has violated the cease-fire, which was 
broken this morning in Cuito. Reports from that city tell us 
that the government forces had sworn to expel Savimbi's men from 
the city, thus paying homage to their deceased commander Kosuma. 
[passage omitted] 

