INTRODUCTION 

       This guide is intended to help users of Foreign Broadcast 
Information Service (FBIS) translations assess the value and 
reliability of media sources in the countries or regions of the 
former Yugoslavia.  It provides key information about the media 
of Bosnia-Herzegovina, Croatia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of 
Macedonia, Slovenia, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia 
(incorporating Serbia and Montenegro).  Wherever possible, an 
at tempt has been made to identify affiliations or reliably 
reported connections between media sources and governmental or 
communal leadership groups. 

   All media identified in this guide are monitored by FBIS, but 
in some cases, due to wartime conditions, receipts have been 
irregular and the information provided in the guide may be 
incomplete.  Characterizations, where provided, are based on FBIS 
analysis of editorial content.  Entries are grouped by region, 
and, within regions, by category: publications, radio, 
television, and news agencies.  The "sourcelines" cited at the 
beginning of each entry are the descriptors used by FBIS to 
identify media sources of FBIS translations.  Sourcelines are 
composed of three elements--the place of origin of the medium, 
its name, and the language it uses. 


   BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA 

   PUBLICATIONS 

JAVNOST 

Sourceline:              Pale JAVNOST in Serbo-Croatian 

Translation of name:     The Public 

Masthead caption:        "Weekly Information Newspaper of the 
                         Republic of Srpska" 

Type of publication:     Weekly newspaper 

Day of publication:      Saturday 
Publisher:               Javnost Newspaper Publishing Enterprise 

Address:                 71000 Pale 

Chief editor:            Jovan Janjic 

Founded by and represents the views of the People's Assembly of 
the self-styled Republic of Srpska, led by Radovan Karadzic; 
printed in Belgrade by the Politika publishing enterprise. 

   RADIO 

MOSTAR CROATIAN RADIO HERZEG-BOSNA 

Sourceline:              Mostar Croatian Radio Herzeg-Bosna in 
                         Serbo-Croatian 

Station identification:  "This is Croatian Radio Herzeg-Bosna" 

Monitored by dial-up phone feed; represents the views of the 
leadership of the self-proclaimed Croatian Republic of 
Herzeg-Bosna in Bosnia-Herzegovina. 

PALE RADIO 

Sourceline:              Pale Srpski Radio-Televizija Studio 
                         Sarajevo Radio in Serbo-Croatian 

Station identification:  "Serb Radio-Television First Program 
                         Radio, Studio Sarajevo" 

Principal frequencies:   1242, 1395 kHz; FM: 88.7, 89.9, 91.7, 
                         92.5, 92.8, 101.7, 102.3, 106.2 MHz 
Hours of operation:      Newscasts observed at 
0600 GMT and 1600 GMT 

Broadcasts from Pale, the administrative center of the 
self-proclaimed Serb Republic in Bosnia-Herzegovina.  Employs 
mainly former Radio Sarajevo journalists, who fled Sarajevo after 
the outbreak of war.  Uses transmitters and relays once used by 
Radio Sarajevo, principally on FM and mediumwave frequencies. 
Represents the views of the Serb leadership of the "Republic of 
Srpska" in Bosnia-Herzegovina.  First heard on 27 December 1992. 
FBIS does not monitor television from this source. 

SARAJEVO RADIO 

Sourceline:              Sarajevo Radio Bosnia-Herzegovina 
                         Network in Serbo-Croatian 

Station identification:  "Radio Bosnie-Hercegovine" or "Radio 
                         Bosnie-Hercegovine Studio Sarajevo" 

Other languages:         English (some newscasts broadcast in 
                         English) 

Principal frequencies:   612, 6889.27 kHz upper sideband 

Hours of operation:      0400-2400 GMT Monday-Friday; 24 hours 
                         Saturday-Sunday 

Operated by the Bosnian Government, led by President Alija 
Izetbegovic; represents the views of the predominantly Muslim 
authorities.  At 1900 GMT the radio carries the audio portion of 
the main Sarajevo Television newscast.  The station has 
experienced frequent outages over the past two years because of 
the fighting in and around Sarajevo but has not been off the air 
for more than a few days. 

   CROATIA 

   PUBLICATIONS 

BIH EKSKLUZIV 

Sourceline:              Split BIH EKSKLUZIV in Serbo-Croatian 

Translation of name:     Bosnia-Herzegovina Exclusive 

Masthead caption:        "So That You Do Not Forget Your 
                         Homeland" 

Type of publication:     Weekly newspaper 

Day of publication:      Friday 

Publisher:               Una Press 

Address:                 Postanski Pregradak 431, 58000 Split 

Director/Chief editor:   Ahmed Bosnic 

Target readers are Bosnian refugees in Croatia.  Concentrates on 
reports of fighting in Bosnia-Herzegovina, crimes allegedly 
committed by Serbs, some foreign affairs. 

DANAS 

Sourceline:              Zagreb DANAS in Serbo-Croatian 

Translation of name:     Today 

Masthead caption:        "Croatian Political Weekly" 

Type of publication:     Weekly magazine 

Day of publication:      Tuesday 

Publisher:               Maximal-Peko 

Address:                 Slavonska Avenija 4, 41000 Zagreb 

Director:                Boris Ivin Peko 

Chief editor:            Hloverka Novak-Srzic 

This magazine, originally a publication of the government-owned 
Vjesnik publishing enterprise, changed its name from DANAS to 
NOVI DANAS in July 1992 after being privatized.  Publication of 
NOVI DANAS was suspended in September 1992, after only eight 
issues, some of which were sharply critical of the government. 
It reappeared as DANAS on 8 January 1993 under the ownership of a 
new private company, led by Director Peko.  Chief editor 
Novak-Srzic, a former Zagreb television journalist, has been 
described by the Zagreb weekly GLOBUS as a Croation Democratic 
Community (HDZ) stalwart.  While generally supportive of the 
government, DANAS has occasionally come under attack by some 
government figures for articles deemed unfairly critical of the 
authorities. 

GLAS SLAVONIJE 

Sourceline:              Osijek GLAS SLAVONIJE in Serbo-Croatian 

Translation of name:     Voice of Slavonia 

Masthead caption:        "The War Edition" 

Type of publication:     Newspaper 

Days of publication:     Monday-Saturday 

Publisher:               Medija centar "Glas Slavonije" 

Address:                 Hrvatske Republike 20, Osijek 

Director:                Karlo Karacic 

Chief editor:            Vladimir Vazdar 

Regional daily that reflects the strongly Croatian nationalist 
views of the leadership of Slavonia; also carries foreign news 
and commentaries. 

GLASNIK 

Sourceline:              Zagreb GLASNIK in Serbo-Croatian 

Translation of name:     The Herald 

Masthead caption:        "Herald of the Croatian Democratic 
                         Community" 

Type of publication:     Weekly magazine 

Day of publication:      Monday 

Publisher:               Hrvatska Demokratska Zajednica 

Address:                 Trg Hrvatske Velikana 4, Zagreb 

Chief editor:            Zdravko Gavran 

Party weekly with its editorial office located in Croatian 
Democratic Community (HDZ) headquarters.  Authoritatively 
represents HDZ views, contains reports and commentaries on 
domestic and foreign affairs as well as reports on party affairs 
and interviews with party figures. 

GLOBUS 

Sourceline:              Zagreb GLOBUS in Serbo-Croatian 

Translation of name:     The Globe 

Masthead caption:        "National Weekly" 

Type of publication:     Weekly newspaper 

Day of publication:      Friday 

Publisher:               Globus International 

Address:                 Marticeva 22, Zagreb 

Director:                Zdravko Jurak 

Chief editor:            Denis Kuljis 
Independent, privately owned newspaper that features interviews, 
reports, and articles on domestic and foreign issues.  It is 
known for its provocative, sometimes sensationalist style, and 
for investigative journalism.  It frequently publishes results of 
polls on the popularity of Croatian parties and leaders. 

HRVATSKI VOJNIK 

Sourceline:              Zagreb HRVATSKI VOJNIK in Serbo-Croatian 

Translation of name:     Croatian Soldier 

Masthead caption:        "Gazette of the Croatian Ministry of 
                         Defense" 

Type of publication:     Biweekly magazine 

Day of publication:      1st and 15th of the month 

Publisher:               Croatian Ministry of Defense 

Address:                 Zvonimirova 12, Zagreb 

Chief editor:            Brigadier Ivan Tolj 

Supplement:              HRVATSKI ZRAKOPLOVAC (Croatian Airman) 

Carries reports on the activities of the Croatian Army, reviews 
of new weapons and interviews with military and political 
leaders. 

NEDJELJNA DALMACIJA 

Sourceline:              Split NEDJELJNA DALMACIJA in 
                         Serbo-Croatian 

Translation of name:     Weekly Dalmatia 

Type of publication:     Weekly newspaper 

Day of publication:      Wednesday 

Publisher:               Slobodna Dalmacija--Novine, 
                         Novinsko-Nakladnicke Djelatnosti 

Address:                 Ulica Ivana Gundulica 23, Split 

Chief editor:            Miroslav Ivic 

Carries reports and commentaries on domestic and foreign issues 
by prominent journalists and politicians; shares much of its 
writing staff with the daily SLOBODNA DALMACIJA. 

NOVI LIST 

Sourceline:              Rijeka NOVI LIST in Serbo-Croatian; 
                         Rijeka TJEDNI NOVI LIST on Sunday 

Translation of name:     New Newspaper; Weekly New Newspaper 

Masthead caption:        "NOVI LIST Was Founded by Frno Supilo on 
                         2 January 1900" 

Type of publication:     Newspaper 

Days of publication:     NOVI LIST on Monday-Saturday; TJEDNI 
                         NOVI LIST on Sunday 

Publisher:               Novi List 

Address:                 Zvonimirova 20/a, Rijeka 

Director:                Zdenko Mance 

Chief editor:            Veljko Vicevic 

Under the ownership of a private company, led by Director Mance, 
this formerly government-owned newspaper has established its 
independence from government influence.  The paper has adopted a 
generally nonpartisan editorial policy critical of both the 
government and opposition parties. 

SLOBODNA DALMACIJA 

Sourceline:              Split SLOBODNA DALMACIJA in 
                         Serbo-Croatian 

Translation of name:     Free Dalmatia 

Masthead caption:        "The First Private Croatian Daily" 

Type of publication:     Daily newspaper 

Publisher:               Slobodna Dalmacij a--Novine, 
                         Novinsko-Nakladnicke Djelatnosti 

Address:                 Ulica Hrvatske Mornarice 4, Split 

Director:                Ante Busic 

Chief editor:            Dino Mikulandra 

In the early days of President Tudjman's government, the paper 
maintained an independent editorial policy and was frequently 
sharply critical of the authorities.  It has become less critical 
of the government since the spring of 1993, when 
government-controlled institutions bought a controlling interest 
in the paper during a "privatization" process and replaced most 
of its management. 

VECERNJI LIST 

Sourceline:              Zagreb VECERNJI LIST in Serbo-Croatian 

Translation of name:     Evening Newspaper 

Masthead caption:        "Independent Newspaper" 

Type of publication:     Newspaper 

Days of publication:     Daily 

Publisher:               Vecernji List 

Address:                 Slavonska Avenija 4, 41000 Zagreb 

Director:                Branko Lovric 

Chief editor:            Branko Tudjen 

Tabloid format; largest circulation Croatian daily.  Generally 
supportive of the government. 
VJESNIK 

Sourceline:              Zagreb VJESNIK in Serbo-Croatian; Zagreb 
                         NEDJELJNI VJESNIK in Serbo-Croatian 
Translation of name:     Herald; Sunday Herald 

Masthead caption:        "Croatian Political Daily" 

Type of publication:     Newspaper 

Days of publication:     VJESNIK on Monday-Saturday; NEDJELJNI 
                         VJESNIK on Sunday 

Publisher:               Novi Vjesnik 

Address:                 Slavonska Avenija 4, 41000 Zagreb 

Director:                Davor Perkovic 

Chief editor:            Kresimir Fijacko 

Leading Croatian paper, regarded in Zagreb as the paper of 
record.  Provides broad national coverage, including interviews 
with prominent politicians, commentaries, and international news. 
Generally supportive of the government. 

   RADIO 

ZAGREB RADIO 

Sourceline:              Zagreb Radio Croatia Network in 
                         Serbo-Croatian 

Station identification:  "Radio Croatia, Zagreb Studio" 

Other languages:         English (Several brief newscasts daily 
                         in English) 

Principal frequencies:   594, 774, 1125, 1134, 1143, 5025, 6150, 
                         9830, 13830 kHz 

Hours of operation:      24 hours 

Croatian Government-funded domestic and international radio 
services.  Newscasts almost always represent the views of the 
Croatian Government and the ruling Croatian Democratic Community 
(HDZ). 

   TELEVISION 

ZAGREB TELEVISION 

Sourceline:              Zagreb HTV Television in Serbo-Croatian 

Station identification:  "Croatian Television" 

Hours of operation:      Monday, Thursday 0810-0000 GMT; Tuesday, 
                         Wednesday 0810-0045 GMT; Friday 
                         0810-0300 GMT; Saturday, Sunday 
                         0825-0015 GMT 

Director:                Branko Lentic 

Government-funded television service.  Main newscasts almost 
always represent the views of the Croatian Government and the 
ruling Croatian Democratic Community (HDZ).  Other public affairs 
broadcasts have occasionally been criticized by government 
officials for their editorial content. 

   NEWS AGENCIES 

HINA 

Sourceline:              Zagreb HINA in Serbo-Croatian 

Translation of name:     HINA is an acronym for "Croatian Press 
                         Agency" (Hrvatska Informativna Novinska 
                         Agencija) 

Other languages:         English 

Official press agency of the Republic of Croatia, founded in 
1991.  Extensively quoted by Croatian radio, television, and 
press. 

   THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA (FYROM) 

   PUBLICATIONS 

FLAKA E VELLAZERIMIT 

Sourceline:              Skopje FLAKA E VELLAZERIMIT in Albanian 

Translation of name:     Flame of Brotherhood 

Type of publication:     Newspaper 

Days of publication:     Sunday, Wednesday, Friday 

Publisher:               Nova Makedonija 

Address:                 Mito Hadzivasilev Jasmin, 91000 Skopje 

Director:                Pande Kolemisevski 

Chief editor:            Abdulhadi Zylfiqari 

Newspaper of the Albanian minority in FYROM; concentrates on 
reports about the Albanian community, but also reports on other 
events in FYROM and occasionally Kosovo and Albania.  Although a 
part of the Nova Makedonija publishing company, which publishes 
the country's major Macedonian-language newspapers (see below), 
the newspaper follows a staunchly independent editorial policy 
that is often sharply critical of the Slavic Macedonian political 
parties. 

NOVA MAKEDONIJA 

Sourceline:              Skopje NOVA MAKEDONIJA in Macedonian 

Translation of name:     New Macedonia 

Type of publication:     Newspaper 

Days of publication:     Daily 

Publisher:               Nova Makedonija Newspaper Publishing 
                         Enterprise 

Address:                 Mito Hadzivasilev Jasmin, 910O0 Skopje 

Director:                Pande Kolemisevski 
Chief editor:            Georgi Ajanovski 

Flagship newspaper of the Nova Makedonija publishing company; 
like other newspapers in the company, appears to set its 
editorial policy independently.  Generally supportive of 
President Kiro Gligorov, but frequently critical of the coalition 
government.  Covers domestic and foreign news, with greater 
emphasis on the former.  Tends to give more extensive coverage to 
the Liberal Party than to other Macedonian parties.  The paper of 
record in Skopje. 

ODBRANA 

Sourceline:              Skopje ODBRANA in Macedonian 

Translation of name:     Defense 

Type of publication:     Magazine 

Dates of publication:    Six times yearly 

Publisher:               Macedonian Defense Ministry 

Address:                 Ulica Orce Nikolov, 91000 Skopje 

Chief editor:            Aleksa Stamenkovski 

Carries articles on politics, social issues, military affairs, 
reviews of weapons. 

PULS 

Sourceline:              Skopje PULS in Macedonian 

Translation of name:     Pulse 

Masthead caption:        "Independent Weekly" 

Type of publication:     Weekly newspaper 

Day of publication:      Friday 

Publisher:               Nova Makedonija 

Address:                 Mito Hadzivasilev Jasmin, 91000 Skopje 

Director:                Pande Kolemisevski 

Chief editor:            Vasil Mickovski 

Carries articles, commentaries, and interviews on domestic and 
foreign affairs; sometimes critical of the government.  Style 
suggests that the paper is aimed at intellectuals. 

VECER 

Sourceline:              Skopje VECER in Macedonian 

Translation of name:     Evening 

Type of publication:     Newspaper 

Days of publication:     Monday-Saturday 

Publisher:               Nova Makedonija 

Address:                 Mito Hadzivasilev Jasmin, 91000 Skopje 

Chief editor:            Stojan Nasev 

Popular, tabloid-style newspaper; coverage sometimes borders on 
sensationalism but occasionally carries investigative reports 
that hint at government corruption. 

   RADIO 

SKOPJE RADIO 

Sourceline:              Skopje Radio Macedonia Network in 
                         Macedonian 

Station identification:  "You are listening to the daily 
                         chronicle of the national channel of 
                         Radio Macedonia" 

Other languages:         Bulgarian 

Principal frequencies:   810, 1242, 1485 kHz 

Hours of operation:      24 hours 

Reflects the views of the FYROM Government. 

   NEWS AGENCIES 

MIC 

Sourceline:              Skopje MIC in English 

Translation of name:     MIC is an acronym for "Macedonian 
                         Information Center" (Makedonski 
                         Informativen Centar) 

Type of publication:     Fax/modem news digest 

Days of publication:     Monday-Friday 

Publisher:               Macedonian Information Center 

Address:                 Orce Nikolov 28, 91000 Skopje 

Director:                Saso Ordanoski 

The Macedonian Information Center is affiliated with the World 
Macedonian Congress, a non-party, non-governmental organization 
whose stated aims are "to assist the Republic of Macedonia in its 
economic, scientific, and technological development and in the 
promotion of Macedonian culture in Europe and throughout the 
world."  The MIC news digest was first issued on 1 October 1993. 

MILS-NEWS 

Sourceline:              Skopje MILS-NEWS in English 

Translation of name:     MILS is an acronym for "Macedonian 
                         Information and Liaison Service" 
                         (Makedonski Centar Za Informacii I 
                         Vrski) 

Type of publication:     Fax/modem news digest 

Days of publication:     Monday-Friday 
Publisher:               Macedonian Information and Liaison 
                         Service 

Address:                 91000 Skopje 

Director:                Ljupco Naumovski 

MILS is the international bureau of the Australian-Macedonian 
Society and is supported by the Ilenden Foundation. 

   SLOVENIA 

   PUBLICATIONS 

DELO 

Sourceline:              Ljubljana DELO in Slovene 

Translation of name:     Labor 

Masthead caption:        "Independent Newspaper for Independent 
                                   Slovenia" 

Type of publication:     Newspaper 

Days of publication:     Monday-Saturday 

Publisher:               CZP Delo 

Address:                 Dunajska 5, 61000 Ljubljana 

Chief editor:            Tit Dobersek 

Editorial content includes diverse viewpoints.  Covers domestic 
and international affairs extensively; carries many commentaries 
and interviews. 

DNEVNIK 

Sourceline:              Ljubljana DNEVNIK in Slovene 

Translation of name:     Daily 

Type of publication:     Newspaper 

Days of Publication:     Monday-Friday 

Publisher:               Dnevnik 

Address:                 Kopitarjeva 2, 61000 

Director:                Ada Gorjup 

Chief editor:            Zlatko Setinc 

Generally supports the views of social-democratic parties and 
occasionally moderate liberal parties.  Devotes more attention to 
domestic than international affairs, using press agency 
dispatches for the latter; also carries commentaries and 
interviews. 

MLADINA 

Sourceline:              Ljubljana MLADINA in Slovene 

Translation of name:     Youth 
Type of publication:     Weekly magazine 

Day of publication:      Tuesday 

Publisher:               Mladina DTP 

Address:                 Resljeva 16, 61000 Ljubljana 

Director:                Andrej Poznic 

Chief editor:            Robert Botteri 

Unaffiliated political weekly, which has uninterruptedly voiced 
opposition views regardless of which parties have formed the 
government. 

OSLOBODJENJE 

Sourceline:              Ljubljana OSLOBODJENJE (Europe Edition) 
                         in Serbo-Croatian 

Translation of name:     Liberation 

Masthead caption:        "European Weekly Edition" 

Type of publication:     Weekly newspaper 

Day of publication:      Irregular 

Publisher:               Oslobodj enj e (Saraj evo) 

Address:                 Dunajska 5, 61000 Ljubljana, Slovenia 

Director:                Salko Hasanefendic 

Chief editor:            Midhad Plivcic 

A weekly produced in Slovenia, summarizing the views of the daily 
edition of OSLOBODJENJE, published in Sarajevo.  The daily 
edition (not regularly distributed outside Sarajevo) is produced 
by a multi-ethnic staff, which has stayed together despite the 
Bosnian civil war. 

SLOVENEC 

Sourceline:              Ljubljana SLOVENEC in Slovene 

Translation of name:     The Slovene 

Masthead caption:        "Newspaper for Politics, Economics, 
                         Culture, and Religion" 

Type of publication:     Newspaper 

Days of publication:     Monday-Saturday 

Publisher:               Slovenec Ltd. 

Address:                 Dunajska 9, Ljubljana 61000 

Director:                Janez Obreza 

Chief editor:            Jani Virk 

Promotes the views of the center-right Christian Democratic 
Party, the Democratic People's Party, and Liberal Democratic 
Party.  Focuses on domestic issues; primarily uses press agency 
reports to cover international affairs; carries some commentaries 
and interviews. 

   RADIO 

LJUBLJANA RADIO 

Sourceline:              Ljubljana Radio Slovenia Network in 
                         Slovene 

Station identification:  "Radio Slovenija, First and Second 
                         Program" 

Principal frequencies:   918, 7215, 9720, 15105 kHz 

Hours of operation:      24 hours 

Generally reflects views of the Slovene Government. 

   FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA 

   KOSOVO 

   PUBLICATIONS 

BUJKU 

Sourceline:              Pristina BUJKU in Albanian 

Translation of name:     The Peasant 

Masthead caption:        "Periodical for Social Issues in the 
                         Countryside" 

Type of publication:     Newspaper 

Days of publication:     Issued five to six times per week; no 
                         regular days 

Publisher:               Rilindja Enterprise 

Address:                 Pallati i Shtypit, Pristina 

Chief editor:            Behlul Jashari 

BUJKU was formerly a publication for peasant farmers.  Since the 
banning of the Albanian-language daily RILINDJA in 1990, it 
gradually become a current affairs publication concentrating on 
Kosovar, Yugoslav, and world politics.  Has supported the rights 
of Kosovo Albanians.  Employs a number of former RILINDJA 
journalists. 

   RADIO 

PRISTINA RADIO 

Sourceline:              Pristina Radio Pristina Network in 
                         Albanian 

Principal frequencies:   1413, 1539 kHz 

Hours of operation:      0400-2305 GMT 

Operated by the Serbian Radio and Television Network; carries 
largely the same material as Belgrade radio. 
   TELEVISION 

PRISTINA TELEVISION 

Sourceline:              Pristina TVP Television Network in 
                         Serbo-Croatian 

Station identification:  "Pristina Television" 

See entry under Belgrade RTB Television Network, page 28. 

   NEWS AGENCIES 

KOSOVA DAILY REPORT 

Sourceline:              Pristina KOSOVA DAILY REPORT in English 

Type of publication:     Faxed news digest 

Days of publication:     Monday-Friday 

Publisher:               Democratic Alliance of Kosovo 

Address:                 38000 Pristina 

Digest of news reports on Kosovar affairs prepared by the 
Democratic Alliance of Kosova, the largest Albanian opposition 
party in Kosovo. 

   MONTENEGRO 

   PUBLICATIONS 

MONITOR 

Sourceline:              Podgorica MONITOR in Serbo-Croatian 

Translation of name:     Monitor 

Masthead caption:        "Montenegrin Independent Weekly" 

Type of publication:     Weekly magazine 

Day of publication:      Friday 

Publisher:               Montenegropublic, Podgorica (privately 
                         owned) 

Address:                 Ulica 19 Decembra Broi 19, 81000 
                         Podgori ca 

Director:                Miodrag Perovic 

Chief editor:            Esad Kocan 

Independent magazine that publishes commentaries, interviews, 
articles.  Frequently critical of Serbian, Montenegrin, and 
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia officials. 

POBJEDA 

Sourceline:              Podgorica POBJEDA in Serbo-Croatian 

Translation of name:     Victory 

Masthead caption:        "Founded by the Montenegrin Assembly" 
Type of publication:     Newspaper 

Days of publication:     Monday-Saturday 

Address:                 Bulevar Revolucije 11, 81000 Podgorica 

Director/Chief editor:   Nikola Ivanovic 

Reflects the views of the government of Montenegro. 

   TELEVISION 

PODGORICA TELEVISION 

Sourceline:              Podgorica TVCG Television Network in 
                         Serbo-Croatian 

Station identification:  "Montenegro Television" 

See entry under Belgrade RTB Television Network, page 28. 

   SERBIA 

   PUBLICATIONS 

BORBA 

Sourceline:              Belgrade BORBA in Serbo-Croatian; 
                         Belgrade NEDELJNA BORBA in 
                         Serbo-Croat ian 

Translation of name:     Struggle; Sunday Struggle 

Masthead caption:        "Independent Political Daily" 

Type of publication:     Newspaper 

Days of publication:     BORBA on Monday-Friday; NEDELJNA BORBA 
                         (Saturday-Sunday edition) on Saturday 

Publisher:               Borba 

Address:                 Trg Nikole Pasica 7, 11000 Belgrade 

Director:                Dusan Mijic 

Chief editor:            Slavko Curuvija 

Staunchly independent, nonpartisan newspaper, recently taken over 
by a new private owner.  Contains broad coverage of domestic and 
foreign affairs; frequently critical of the government of 
President Slobodan Milosevic and federal authorities. 

DUGA 

Sourceline:              Belgrade DUGA in Serbo-Croatian 

Translation of name:     Rainbow 

Type of publication:     Biweekly magazine 

Day of publication:      Every other Saturday 

Publisher:               Beogradski Izdavacko-Graficki Zavod 

Address:                 Bulevar Vojvode Misic, 11000 Belgrade 
Director/Chief editor:   Ilija Rapaic 

Independent biweekly that carries political and social commentary 
as well as articles focusing on popular culture.  Regularly 
carries a column of political commentary written by Mirjana 
Markovic--Milosevic's wife--that often criticizes the Serbian 
nationalist cause. 

EKONOMSKA POLITIKA 

Sourceline:              Belgrade EKONOMSKA POLITIKA in 
                         Serbo-Croatian 
Translation of name:     Economic Policy 

Type of publication:     Weekly magazine 

Day of publication:      Monday 

Publisher:               Ekonomska Poli tika 

Address:                 Trg Nikole Pasica 7, 11001 Belgrade 

Director/Chief editor:   Milutin Mitrovic 

Carries articles, statistics, and interviews on economic and 
business affairs; has criticized the economic policies of the 
Serbian Republic and the federal government. 

INTERVJU 

Sourceline:              Belgrade INTERVJU in Serbo-Croatian 

Translation of name:     Interview 

Type of publication:     Weekly magazine 

Day of publication:      Friday 

Publisher:               Politika 

Address:                 Cetinjska 3-III, 11001 Beograd 

Chief editor:            Dragan Vlahovic 

Independent news weekly; carries interviews with prominent 
politicians, as well as articles and commentary on political, 
economic, and social issues. 

NIN 

Sourceline:              Belgrade NIN in Serbo-Croatian 

Translation of name:     NIN is an acronym for "Weekly 
                         Information Newspaper" 

Type of publication:     Weekly magazine 

Day of publication:      Friday 

Publisher:               NIN 

Address:                 Cetinska 1, Belgrade 

Director/Chief editor:   Dusan Velickovic 

Independent news weekly; generally supports moderate Serbian 
nationalism; often criticizes the policies of the Serbian 
Government; also frequently critical of the Bosnian Government 
and both the Croatian Government and the Bosnian Croats. 

POLITIKA 

Sourceline:              Belgrade POLITIKA in Serbo-Croatian 

Translation of name:     Politics 

Type of publication:     Newspaper 

Days of publication:     Daily 

Publisher:               Poli tika 

Address:                 Makedonska 29, 11000 Belgrade 

Director:                Hadzi Dragan Antic 

Chief editor:            Bosko Jaksic 

Independent newspaper; flagship daily of the Politika publishing 
company and the paper of record in Serbia.  In 1992 Director 
Minovic, an erstwhile Milosevic stalwart, surrendered control 
over policy to the newly independent Politika editors.  Politika, 
although critical of the regime between mid-1992 and the summer 
of 1993, has since adopted a more pro-government stance. 

POLITIKA EKSPRES 

Sourceline:              Belgrade POLITIKA EKSPRES in 
                         Serbo-Croat ian 

Translation of name:     Politics Express 

Masthead caption:        "Evening Newspaper" 

Type of publication:     Newspaper 

Days of publication:     Daily 

Publisher:               Politika 

Address:                 Makedonska 29, 11000 Belgrade 

Director:                Zivorad Minovic 

Chief editor:            Mile Kordic 

Tabloid-style newspaper; although independent, generally supports 
the Serbian Government and its policies; strongly supports 
Serbian nationalism. 

SRPSKA REC 

Sourceline:              Belgrade SRPSKA REC in Serbo-Croatian 

Translation of name:     Serbian Word 

Masthead caption:        "Free Newspaper" 

Type of publication:     Biweekly magazine 

Day of publication:      Monday 

Publisher:               Free Journalists 

Address:                 Brankova 13-15, 11000 Beograd 

Chief editor:            Bogoljub Pejcic 

Newspaper of the Serbian Renewal Movement; its editorial stance 
is strongly oppositionist and Serbian nationalist. 

VECERNJE NOVOSTI 

Sourceline:              Belgrade VECERNJE NOVOSTI in 
                         Serbo-Croatian 

Translation of name:     Evening News 

Masthead caption:        "Daily With the Largest Circulation in 
                         the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia" 

Type of publication:     Daily newspaper 

Publisher:               Izadavacko Preduzece Novosti 

Address:                 Trg Nikole Pasica 7, Beograd 

Chief editor:            Radisav Rade Brajovic 

A tabloid that strongly supports the Serbian Government and 
Serbian nationalism. 

VOJSKA 

Sourceline:              Belgrade VOJSKA in Serbo-Croatian 

Translation of name:     Army 

Type of publication:     Weekly magazine 

Publisher:               Federal Ministry of Defense 

Address:                 Bircaninova 5, Belgrade 

Acting chief editor:     Stanoje Jovanovic 

Changed name from NARODNA ARMIJA on 1 June 1992; military weekly 
magazine targeted at commissioned and noncommissioned officers; 
strongly supportive of the Milosevic regime and the Serbian 
nationalist cause in Bosnia-Herzegovina and Croatia. 

VREME 

Sourceline:              Belgrade VREME in Serbo-Croatian 

Translation of name:     Time 

Type of publication:     Weekly magazine 

Day of publication:      Monday 

Publisher:               Vreme 

Address:                 Narodnog Fronta 45/VII, 11000 Belgrade 

Director:                Ivan Mrdjen 

Chief editor:            Dragoljub Zarkovic 
Current affairs weekly that pursues a staunchly independent 
editorial policy; often sharply critical of the Milosevic regime 
and the varieties of nationalism espoused in the Balkans. 

   RADIO 

BELGRADE RADIO 

Sourceline:              Belgrade Radio Beograd Network in 
                         Serbo-Croat ian 

Station identification:  "Serbian Radio and Television -- Radio 
                         Belgrade First Program" 

Principal frequencies:   684, 7200 kHz 

Hours of operation:      24 hours 

Reflects the view of the regime of President Slobodan Milosevic, 
although not as tightly controlled as is Belgrade television. 
Provides news from Yugoslavia, former Yugoslav republics, other 
countries. 

   TELEVISION 

BELGRADE TELEVISION 

Sourceline:              Belgrade RTB Television Network in 
                         Serbo-Croat ian 

                         Other Studios: 
                         Novi Sad TVNS Television Network in 
                         Serbo-Croa t i an 
                         Podgorica TVCG Television Network in 
                         Serbo-Croa t i an 
                         Pristina TVP Television Network in 
                         Serbo-Croa t i an 

Station identification:  "Radio Televizija Beograd" and "Serbian 
                         Radio and Television Satellite Program" 

Hours of operation:      0715-0030 GMT (Monday-Friday); 0730-0015 
                         GMT (Saturday-Sunday) 

Newscasts:               1830 GMT, 2130 GMT (daily) and 1600 GMT 
                         (Monday-Friday); 1630 GMT (Saturday); 
                         1255 GMT (Sunday) 

Under tight control of Milosevic regime; fully utilized for the 
promotion of the Socialist Party's ideas and policies.  Many 
broadcasts are also relayed to Serb-populated regions of 
Bosnia-Herzegovina and Croatia. 

FBIS monitors only the satellite transmission of this station, 
which is carried six hours daily (1700-2300 GMT wintertime) and 
is a compilation of broadcasts prepared by the studios of the 
Serbian Television Network--Belgrade, Novi Sad, and Pristina--and 
the Podgorica (Montenegro) television studio. 

   NEWS AGENCIES 

SRNA 

Sourceline:              Belgrade SRNA in Serbo-Croatian 

Translation of name:     Serbian Republic News Agency (Srpska 
                         Novinska Agencija) 

Identification:          "Belgrade 9840.  News by the SRNA 
                         agency." 
A recorded telephone message service, established to "provide 
news on the situation in Bosnia-Herzegovina to the citizens of 
the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, especially the refugees from 
Bosnia-Herzegovina."  Represents the views of the leadership of 
the so-called Republic of Srpska in Bosnia-Herzegovina. 

TANJUG 

Sourceline:              Belgrade TANJUG Domestic Service in 
                         Serbo-Croatian; also Belgrade TANJUG in 
                         English 

Translation of name:     TANJUG is an acronym for "Telegraphic 
                         Agency of New Yugoslavia" (Telegrafska 
                         Agencija Nove Jugoslavije) 

Principal frequencies:   5112 kHz (Serbo-Croatian); 7996, 13440 
                         kHz (English) 

Hours of operation:      Serbo-Croatian monitored 24 hours daily; 
                         English monitored 0500-240O GMT 
                         Monday-Friday and 0800-2100 GMT Saturday 
                         and Sunday 

Government-funded radioteletype news service for the domestic 
press (in Serbo-Croatian) and for international audiences (in 
English).  Reflects views of the Milosevic regime. 

   VOJVODINA 

   PUBLICATIONS 

MAGYAR SZO 

Sourceline:              Novi Sad MAGYAR SZO in Hungarian 

Translation of name:     Hungarian Word 

Type of publication:     Newspaper 

Days of publication:     Thursday and Saturday 

Publisher:               The FORUM Newspaper and Book Printing 
                         Industry Public Enterprise 

Address:                 Vojvode Misica 1, 21000 Novi Sad 

Director:                Gyula Gobby Feher 

Chief editor:            Sandor Balint 

Formerly a daily, the paper has been published twice a week since 
late 1993, when it was cut back because of financial problems. 
While MAGYAR SZO has been the main outlet for the views of the 
Hungarian minority's only significant political organization, the 
Democratic Community of Vojvodina Hungarians (DZVM), in late 1993 
some DZVM officials accused the paper of reducing its coverage of 
the organization and of showing more support for the democratic 
Serbian opposition than for the DZVM. 

   TELEVISION 

NOVI SAD TELEVISION 

Sourceline:              Novi Sad TVNS Television Network in 
                         Serbo-Croatian 

Station identification:  "Novi Sad Television" 


   See entry under Belgrade RTB Television Network,page 28. 



   Comments and queries regarding this media guide can be 
directed to Chief Analyst, Europe/Latin America Group, at (703) 
733-6120.  Comments and queries concerning the World Media Report 
series can be directed to Media Assessment Branch, Global Issues 
Group, at (703) 733-6131. 

   FBIS Media Guides are disseminated electronically to U.S. 
Government offices that are regular FBIS sof t-copy customers, and 
as a hard-copy publication to all U.S. Government subscribers who 
regularly receive the corresponding geographic Daily Report. 
Copies of this guide (FBIS MEDIA GUIDE: THE FORMER YUGOSLAVIA, 
Document Number: WMR 94-001, Publication Date: 17 February 1994) 
and subscriptions to FBIS Media Guides are available free of 
charge to government offices from Requirements and Dissemination 
Branch, Foreign Broadcast Information Service, P.O. Box 2604, 
Washington, DC 20013-2604, Fax: (703) 733-6042.  For additional 
information or assistance, call FBIS at (202) 338-6735. 
Electronic customers may also request copies or subscriptions to 
the hard-copy version by sending a message to the router 
RUCWAAB/FBIS RESTON VA//ATTN RDB//. 
GIG/28FEB94/OSD/PF 01/0305z Mar 

