Language: <F P=105> Persian </F>
Article Type:BFN 

<F P=106> ["Text" of statement by Islamic Students Association of the </F>
Amir Kabir Industrial University; date not given] 
  [Excerpts] Your Excellency, Esteemed Interior Minister, 
following your remarks in the Islamic Republic of Iran, which 
were full of accusations, when you hid under the cover of 
"solidarity against the United States" and attacked the purest 
Muslim forces that believe in the Islamic system and were the 
heart of those anti- U.S. forces who were behind the advent of 
the "second revolution" [the occupation of the U.S. Embassy in 
Tehran by students], it is necessary to mention the following 
points: [passage omitted] 
  -- Do you fear students' protests against questioning the 
values of the revolution and their condemnation of 
American-style Islam and its suitability, as elucidated by the 
imam? This [American-style Islam] takes the form of foreign 
borrowing and economic policies that result in greater pressure 
on the deprived and oppressed strata; unlimited imports that 
have undermined the production system of the country; factories 
that have been auctioned off to the benefit of foreigners and 
affiliated investors; extensive and ludicrous publicity for 
foreign goods such as American Coca-Cola, foreign appliances, 
candies, bananas, and so on with foreign loans that have 
antagonized the Muslim forces and domestic producers; opening 
doors to foreign trucks; and the propagation of all means of 
decadence that are opposed to the pristine culture of Islam and 
our Islamic country. [passage omitted covered in referent item] 
  -- Your Excellency, you are the one who is violating all the 
revolutionary values. You have indulged in extensive flights of 
fancy, which have exceeded all the boundaries specified by the 
founder of the Republic. Therefore, please consider this 
warning seriously; that you are not in a position where you, Mr. 
Minister, can make such claims, as all your legitimacy and that 
of your decrees depends on the fact that you are an official of 
the Islamic Republic, which is headed by the Vali-ye Faqih [The 
supreme jurisconsult]. [passage omitted] 
  O God Almighty! You know what the Americans and their ilk 
have done in our country and the entire world. They have shed 
the blood of Muslims, have subjugated and pillaged our resources 
and our honor, and have planted their puppet governments. They 
have killed, burned, and plundered and now they are preparing 
for the most extensive and multifaceted onslaught of all, based 
on their communications technology. We beseech you to grant our 
officials awareness, the power to plan against this eventuality. 
[passage omitted] 

