Language: <F P=105> Arabic </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] Jeddah, 3 Feb (SPA) -- Dr. Hamid al-Ghabid, 
secretary-general of the Islamic Conference Organization [ICO], 
expressed the organization's great concern over the escalation 
of (?aggressive) campaigns waged by Serbs and Croats against 
Muslims in Bosnia-Herzegovina. 
  In a statement issued today, the secretary-general condemned 
attempts by Serbia and Croatia to wipe out the Republic of 
Bosnia-Herzegovina from the map by intensifying attacks, 
increasing direct military intervention, declaring general 
mobilization, and other means. 
  He said that despite the clear and candid resolutions of the 
UN General Assembly and many resolutions of the UN Security 
Council, the prevarication of some of the main forces has 
prevented the UN from implementing its resolutions or 
endeavoring to impose them. He pointed out the dangers in 
securing a resolution based on the assumption of a possibility 
of restoring peace by imposing arbitrary and unjust conditions 
on the victims of the conflict. 
  The ICO secretary-general reaffirmed the ICO's full 
solidarity and support for the government and people of 
Bosnia-Herzegovina. He urged the international community, 
particularly the UN Security Council's permanent members, to 
take effective action to stop further escalation of violence. 
He also called for the adoption of a principled method on the 
issue by all the sides concerned, including the European Union, 
so that a just peace may be restored in Bosnia-Herzegovina. 

