Language: <F P=105> Turkish </F>
Article Type:BFN 

<F P=106> [Report by Muyesser Yildiz] </F>
  [Text] Ankara -- National Defense Minister Mehmet Golhan 
said Greece's initiative to search for oil off Thasos Island is 
a "bluff" and "madness." Golhan stated that this madness will 
be considered as a cause for war. 
  In a statement to YENI GUNAYDIN on the Greek initiative to 
search for oil in the disputed waters of the Aegean, National 
Defense Minister Mehmet Golhan recalled that Greece made a 
similar attempt in 1987 and then gave it up when Turkey declared 
it would consider such a move as a cause for war. Indicating 
that it would be very difficult for Greece to start searching 
for oil, Golhan said: "This is a bluff and madness." 
  Indicating that the declaration of sovereignty over these 
waters will follow once Greece starts searching for oil in the 
disputed waters, Golhan said: "In such a case, there can be no 
question of Turkey retreating from its 1987 position." In 
saying this, he implied that such an initiative would again be 
considered a cause for war. 
  Stating that the developments are being closely watched, 
Golhan said in the case of any operation, the National Security 
Council will meet to determine the necessary strategies and 
every political and military initiative will be undertaken. 
<H5>  Foreign Ministry: "There Is No Tension" </H5>
  On the other hand, the Foreign Ministry stated that reports 
to the effect that Greece's oil prospecting activities in the 
Aegean have increased tension are not correct. 
  Deputy Spokesman of the Foreign Ministry Ferhat Ataman said 
that, from Turkey's point of view, there is no obstacle to 
Greece's searching for oil within its own 6-mile territorial 
waters in the Aegean. 

