Language: <F P=105> Mandarin </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] The provincial government yesterday [31 January] 
held its fifth plenary session at which it summed up last year's 
work, made arrangements for this year's work, and spelled out 
several major tasks for present and immediate future. 
  Provincial Governor Ma Zhongchen delivered a speech at the 
fifth plenary session entitled: "Now That Reform and 
Development Tasks Have Been Outlined, It Is Imperative To Focus 
on Key Aspects and To Ensure Smooth Work." In his speech, 
Governor Ma Zhongchen stated: In 1993, Henan witnessed 
comprehensive national economic and social development, mainly 
because, first, we further emancipated our minds, and expanded 
reform and opening up after studying Volume 3 of the 
Selected Works of Deng Xiaoping, as well as "The CPC 
Central Committee Decision on Several Questions on Building a 
Socialist Market Economy Structure." Second, we succeeded in 
securing fast-paced national economic growth across the 
province, in raising the province's GNP growth rate to a level 
higher than the country's average, and in lowering the 
province's natural population growth rate to a level lower than 
the country's average, as well as in maintaining social 
stability. Third, we implemented and carried out a series of 
measures formulated by the central authorities to strengthen 
macroeconomic regulation and control; concentrated on tackling 
existing problems; made no complaints, accusations, or disputes; 
refrained from taking the road back; and succeeded in mobilizing 
enthusiasm on the part of localities and departments. Fourth, we 
made more investment than in any single previous year. Fifth, we 
scored noticeable results in combating corruption and 
professional malpractices. 
  Provincial Governor Ma Zhongchen outlined the following 12 
major tasks for 1994: 1) To deepen reform and to further 
liberate and develop rural productive forces with a view to 
increasing peasants' income -- this being a task of great 
significance; 2) To expeditiously establish a modern enterprise 
system with a view to comprehensively raising economic 
efficiency; 3) To rapidly foster and develop an essential market 
for the means of production, and to continually develop and 
perfect a commodity market; 4) To comprehensively push forward 
reform of the financial and revenue systems, with an eye to 
steadily increasing financial revenue; 5) To actively press 
ahead with banking system reform and make unremitting efforts to 
raise funds and secure the free flow of funds; 6) To carry on 
reform of the planning and investment systems, and to see that 
each and every key project is built on schedule; 7) To speed up 
foreign trade system reform and expand opening up to the outside 
world; 8) To actively support and develop the non-public 
economic sector and to comprehensively develop all sorts of 
economic elements; 9) To further reform of the science, 
technology, and education systems, and to make science, 
technology, and education better serve economic construction; 
10) To further improve family planning work and fulfill this 
year's population control quota; 11) To maintain social 
stability and create a favorable environment for reform and 
development; 12) To firmly grasp two major work aspects at the 
same time, and to vigorously promote the building of spiritual 
civilization. 
  Governor Ma Zhongchen also spelled out the following several 
major tasks for the present and the immediate future: 1) To 
actively open up new sources of goods, properly control 
commodity prices, and guarantee an ample supply of commodities 
on the market during the Lunar New Year Festival period; 2) To 
make comprehensive and flawless arrangements for the livelihood 
of staff and workers, and to support and assist disaster- and 
poverty-stricken areas in a down-to-earth manner; 3) To make 
sound arrangements for agricultural production and to step up 
the management of wheat fields; 4) To strengthen income 
management and guarantee sufficient wage payment to staff and 
workers. 
  The provincial government's fifth plenary session was 
presided over by Vice Governor Fan Qingchen and was attended by 
Vice Governors Zhang Shiying, Zhang Honghua, and Yu Jiahua; by 
persons in charge of various provincial departments, bureaus, 
and commissions; by Zhong Lisheng, vice chairman of the 
provincial people's congress standing committee; by Liu Yujie, 
vice chairman of the provincial committee of the Chinese 
People's Political Consultative Conference; and others. 

