Language: <F P=105> Spanish </F>
Article Type:BFN 

<F P=106> [Report by Ligia Moreno from "The News" newscast] </F>
  [Text] Anibal Martinez, president of the Pro-Venezuela 
Association, said that, unfortunately for our country, the U.S. 
Environmental Protection Agency's discriminatory decision 
against the 8 million liters of reformulated gasoline that 
Venezuela exports every day has coincided with the European 
Economic Community nomenclature committee's examination of 
Orimulsion's classification. Orimulsion is a new fuel developed 
by Venezuela that can be burned to generate electricity 
directly. This natural bitumen is obtained at our Faja del 
Orinoco site. 
  [Begin recording] [Moreno] Could you tell us Pro-Venezuela's 
reasons for rejecting the discriminatory actions against 
Orimulsion by the United States and the UK? 
  [Martinez] We are presenting a strong protest to the U.S. 
and 
UK Governments, through their respective embassies in the 
country, for the discriminatory treatment given, in the case of 
the United States, to the reformulated gasoline we export to 
that country, and in the case of the UK, for the unfriendly 
actions of the government against Orimulsion. The UK took an 
internal policy problem to the European Union and requested that 
Orimulsion, a new fuel developed by Venezuela, be inaccurately 
classified. [end recording] 

