Article   Type:BFN 

  [Editorial Report] The following is a compilation of 
reports on Costa Rican economic developments monitored through 
11 January; source follows in parentheses after each item. 
  Economy Minister Roberto Rojas confirmed on 4 January that 
the 1993 inflation rate was 9.05 percent, almost 7-percent lower 
than in 1992 and the lowest in the past 10 years. December 
inflation was .9 percent. (Paris AFP in Spanish 1623 GMT 4 Jan 
94) 
  The Center for the Promotion of Exports and Investments has 
reported that exports of products and services increased 52 
percent during the past three years. Exports in 1990 totaled 
$1.7 billion, and increased to 2.6 billion in 1993. Meanwhile, 
the Central Bank has reported that imports in 1990 totaled $1.9 
billion and are expected to reach approximately $3 billion in 
1993, an increase of $1 billion, or 50.9 percent during the past 
three years. (San Jose LA NACION in Spanish 28 Dec 93 p 21A) 
  Central Bank President Jorge Corrales has officially 
reported 
that 1993 closed with net international reserves totaling $945 
million, more than $20 million above the goal established by the 
IMF. Corrales has said revenues were obtained through exports, 
which grew 17 percent, tourism, which increased 20 percent, and 
foreign investments. 
  He said that Costa Rica has complied with another IMF 
requirement by reducing net credits in the public sector by 
almost 30 percent. According to Corrales, the accumulated 
inflation rate in 1993 was reduced to 9.05 percent, the lowest 
since 1978. To a large extent, this was due to controls on the 
fiscal deficit, which is estimated at 1.3 percent of the gross 
natinal product, and a reduction in import restrictions that 
began in 1992, Corrales explained. He added that factors that 
contributed to reduce the inflation rate were the reduction in 
the price of fuel and lower electricity and water rates. The 
government maintains that the current level of reserves will be 
sufficient to finance the deficit in the trade balance, which is 
estimated at $800 million, the highest in the country's history. 
(Mexico City NOTIMEX in Spanish 0040 GMT 8 Jan 94) 

