BFN 

  [Text] Bratislava, June 16 (CTK) -- Slovak Premier Jozef 
Moravcik expects his forthcoming meeting with Czech Premier 
Vaclav Klaus to be a "certain inventarization of questions which 
are still open" between the two countries. Klaus and Moravcik 
are to meet at the international forum of politicians and 
economists in Crans-Montana, Switzerland. 
  "We will tell each other which problems can be settled at 
present and which cannot," Moravcik told CTK today. He pointed 
out that Slovakia had taken an accommodating stance towards 
Prague's demands as regards the introduction of a standard 
border regime. 
  Moravcik said he viewed as extremely urgent the abolition of 
the "old bloc" of the clearing account in trade between the 
Czech and Slovak Republics, where accounts are made in the ratio 
1:1. This becomes subject of speculation and harms the Slovak 
budget, he added. "We would like to reach an agreement, as the 
problem is very urgent," Moravcik stated. He admitted that the 
main problem was that of covering the rate differences in the 
transfer of payments to the rate of the Czech and Slovak 
currencies towards ECU [European Currency Unit]. 
  "There are more ways of solving the issue, but two of them 
can be considered. The rate differences would either be shared 
-- in some specific way -- by the two sides, or the solution of 
the differences would be left with enterprises, debtors, and 
creditors themselves," Moravcik said. He said he did not expect 
any changes in the functioning of the clearing scheme, though 
the two parties were likely to express their stances in 
Crans-Montana. The four-day forum starts today. 

