Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] Riga, Jan 19, BNS -- The prime ministers of the 
Baltic states signed today agreements on strengthening the 
countries' eastern borders and on forming a Baltic peacekeeping 
battalion. 
  Latvian Premier Valdis Birkavs and his Estonian counterpart, 
Mart Laar, said at a press conference later the events of the 
last few days force the Baltic states to intensify cooperation 
in security. This was the primary topic of today's meeting in 
Jurmala near Riga. 
  Birkavs, Laar and Lithuanian Prime Minister Adolfas 
Slezevicius signed a joint statement condemning Russian Foreign 
Minister Andrei Kozyrev's remarks on "Russian interests" in the 
Baltic states. Kozyrev hinted that a continued Russian military 
presence is needed in the Baltics. 
  Laar said at the press conference the Baltic states stand 
firm that Russian troops must be withdrawn from Estonia and 
Latvia by the end of August. 
  The Latvian premier noted that the government heads may sign 
also an agreement on economic cooperation. Agreements on 
consular relations and on a common visa space are still under 
discussion in three-way working groups. 
  The Baltic states are expected to sign today an agreement on 
cooperation in energy, and Latvia and Lithuania will probably 
conclude a contract for building jointly a fuel terminal at 
Liepaja in Latvia. 

