Language: <F P=105> Estonian </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] The government is of the opinion that Russia has 
begun an economic war against the Baltic states. The 
government's press service states that beginning 15 March, 
Russia implemented extremely high customs tariffs on Estonian, 
Latvian and Estonian [as received] goods, tariffs that are 
double what has to be paid on other countries' goods. 
Instructions to this end were issued by a Russian Federation 
state committee on 11 March. Riigikogu economic commission 
chairman Ivar Raig, thinks that Estonia should raise the issue 
at the international level, while Prime Minister Mart Laar 
thinks that an economic war against the Baltic states will harm 
Russia first and foremost because a lot of agricultural produce 
will not be supplied. 
  Commenting on the Russian decision, the prime minister 
regrets that Russia does not want constructive and 
goodneighborly relations with the Baltic states. Foreign 
Minister Juri Luik is amazed that Russia would implement 
discriminatory customs duty payments against other countries, as 
it has voiced a desire to become a member of GATT, the 
international trade agreement. Juri Luik stated that this is in 
sharp contrast with GATT principles. 
  According to Prime Minister Laar the Russian decision to 
double customs duty on Baltic goods in comparison to goods from 
other European countries has demonstrated that the course 
adopted by the Estonian Government to orientate the Estonian 
economy toward the West is the only correct one. He stated that 
Estonia is not dependent on Russia, and for this reason Estonia 
has nothing to fear. Those few producers who, as the government 
press release notes, orientated themselves unilaterally toward 
the eastern market must, according to Laar, simply reorganize 
their production. 

