Language: <F P=105> Albanian </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] The Defense Ministry spokesman reports that 
yesterday a watchtower guard for the Navy forces observed a 
Greek patrol ship entering Albanian territorial waters south of 
Qefal Cape at approximately 1610. At 1615, after approaching 
within 1 mile of the Albanian coast, this Greek military ship 
fired a volley. The ship not only violated our territorial 
waters but sailed in these waters for 20 minutes. The ship left 
after a torpedo boat of the Sarande coastal district appeared. 
  The Defense Ministry spokesman declares that this is not the 
only case. As we have reported before, on 5 November 1993 the 
Greek military ship Matis violated our territorial waters and 
sailed eight miles into our territory. On 4 January 1994 
another Greek ship entered our waters and opened fire against an 
Albanian motor boat which was fishing within our territorial 
waters. 
  The Defense Ministry reports that these actions by Greek 
patrol ships constitute serious violations of the territorial 
waters of the Republic of Albania. The Ministry protests and 
asks the appropriate Greek bodies to prevent these cases, 
because the use of firearms within the territory of Albanian 
Navy waters runs in flagrant opposition to international laws 
and conventions. All these constitute a serious provocation 
within Albanian territorial waters and infringe upon the 
relations of good-neighborliness between the two countries. 
  We also want to make known that the Albanian Navy forces are 
engaged and ready to energetically act to preserve the 
inviolability of Albanian territorial waters. 

