BFN 

<F P=106> ["hal"-attributed report: "Law on Construction of </F>
Rapid-Transit Link Passed"] 
  [Text] With the votes of the coalition, the Bundestag has 
passed a planning law for the magnetic levitation vehicle link. 
It was necessary to pass this law to begin construction of the 
already agreed upon "Transrapid" magnetic levitation vehicle 
link between Hamburg and Berlin. The opposition and the 
environmental organizations have criticized this rapid-transit 
link as superfluous from the point of view of communications and 
environmentally hostile. Therefore it is doubtful whether the 
Bundesrat, in which the Social Democratic Party of Germany [SPD] 
has a majority, will vote for the planning law. Transportation 
Minister Wissmann (Christian-Democratic Union) described the new 
link as a future-orientated transportation system that is an 
effective contribution to the problem of solving increasing 
transportation needs in an environmentally friendly manner. The 
construction of the first stretch of the magnetic levitation 
link is essential primarily to secure export chances of the 
technology involved. On the other hand, the SPD criticized not 
just the magnetic link itself, but the planning methods used. 
SPD Bundestag deputy Wetzel said the planning law is full of 
inconsistencies, and that citizens did not play an adequate part 
in the planning process. The construction of the magnetic link 
is to cost 8.9 billion German marks [DM], with the federation 
contributing DM5.6 billion to the construction of the route. 
The finished link is to be run on a private basis by the German 
Federal Railroad and Lufthansa, and is to be completed by 2005. 

