Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] Monrovia, March 8 (AFP) -- The number of Liberian 
faction fighters needing to be disarmed under the peace plan 
ending four years of civil war has been halved, UN observer 
mission chief Daniel Opande disclosed here on Tuesday [8 March]. 
  The original estimate had been 60,000, comprising men under 
arms with the National Patriotic Front of Liberia [NPFL] of 
Charles Taylor, its main rival the United Liberation Movement 
for Democracy in Liberia [ULIMO], and soldiers of the armed 
forces serving the interim government. But latest figures 
supplied by the three factions gave the NPFL and ULIMO l0,000 
guerrillas each and the army slightly fewer, General Opande said. 
  The new figure of some 30,000 was more realistic, since a 
ceasefire had been in force since last July and units had 
disbanded to return to civilian life, Opande said. 
  Opande, a Kenyan officer, is head of a 300-strong UN 
observer 
mission supervising the disarmament, which is being carried out 
by 20,000 troops from eight African countries comprising a 
monitoring group, Economic Community of West African States 
Cease-Fire Monitoring Group [ECOMOG], stationed in Liberia by 
the Economic Community of West African States. ECOMOG, then 
4,000-strong, was first deployed here in mid-1990. 
  According to UN estimates, 150,000 people were killed in the 
years of fighting, and a further 700,000 fled the country. UN 
special representative Trevor Gordon-Somers, speaking to the 
press after Opande, said he expected 60 percent of the refugees 
to return home "spontaneously" in the coming two to three 
months. He has a budget of five million dollars for resettling 
the combatants and restoring ruined villages. 
  After months of wrangling among the factions, aggravated by 
internal feuding, a five-member collective presidency, the state 
council, was sworn in on Monday to prepare for a general 
election next September. 

