BFN 

  [Text] Hanoi (DPA) -- The Vietnamese Government is ready 
to negotiate with Bonn about the return of the roughly 40,000 
Vietnamese who live in Germany illegally. Vietnamese Government 
members told this to Bonn's Development Minister Carl-Dieter 
Spranger (Christian Social Union) in Hanoi on Friday [27 May]. 
The Federal Government has long been urging the conclusion of 
such an agreement with Vietnam, which has so far blocked 
deportations in Bonn's view -- for instance by refusing to issue 
Vietnamese immigration papers. 
  The Vietnamese in question are both asylum-seekers as well 
as 
former guest workers of the GDR whose residence permits expire 
if they cannot prove they have regular work in the FRG. The 
number of asylum-seekers has risen to about 11,000 (1993) over 
the past three years. Fewer than 1 percent are recognized as 
having a right to asylum. 
  Speaking to journalists in Hanoi, Do Quoc Sam, head of the 
State Planning Commission, emphatically rejected reports that 
parastatal institutions are involved in smuggling services for 
entering Germany. 
  So far, the Vietnamese Government has argued that it cannot 
accept all emigrated or escaped fellow-citizens at once. They 
will be permitted to return if they come voluntarily and the 
Federal Government provides financial support for their 
reintegration. 
  The FRG Development Ministry is promoting the integration of 
returnees from the former GDR with an existence-founding 
program, advanced training, and advice. A total of 18 million 
German marks has been promised for this purpose. 

