BFN 

  [Text] Tallinn, Apr 20, BNS -- The agreements on the 
protection and promotion of investments, on trade relations and 
protection of intellectual property, signed by Estonian Prime 
Minister Mart Laar and U.S. Vice President Al Gore in Washington 
Tuesday [19 April], are another step in the development of 
economic relations between the two countries after the 1992 
agreement on trade and investments. 
  The first of the two agreements, on the promotion and 
protection of investments, gives both countries a most favored 
status in investments with each other. The document also 
includes guarantees against expropriation, and sets the right to 
freely transfer profits, the Estonian Embassy in Washington says. 
  It defines the investors' rights on the territory of the 
other party in the agreement, as well as rules for the 
settlement of disputes. The document determines the fields of 
the economy where the countries have the right to introduce more 
favorable conditions for local investors. 
  The second agreement signed on Tuesday contains two separate 
sections. The section on trade relations covers different areas 
of trade except for textiles and clothes -- a sphere that is to 
be regulated under a separate agreement. 
  Section Two of the document in about the protection of 
intellectual property. This is the first agreement to be signed 
by Estonia with a foreign country that in a detailed manner 
establishes rules for the protection of intellectual property 
rights. 

