Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] Changsha, February 24 (XINHUA) -- An international 
prize-winning high-yield hybrid rice seed production technology 
has been made into TV programs, both in English and Chinese, in 
central China's Hunan Province. 
  The technology, which was invented by the young agronomist 
Huang Peijin after five years' painstaking efforts, is believed 
to be able to solve the long-existing problem of low yields per 
ha [hectare] when producing hybrid rice seeds. 
  The application of the technology in Lingling Prefecture has 
recorded a per ha average output of 4,500 kg on a large area of 
farmland over the past three years, and helped save more than 
3,000 hectares of improved farmland from making rice seed, 
bringing about 40 million yuan in output value. 
  Domestic and overseas experts say that the technology is of 
high value in application. 
  The invention of the technology, which has also obtained a 
national patent, has brought Huang many honors, including the 
gold prize given by the International Intellectual Property 
Organization. 
  Professor Yuan Longping, dubbed "father of hybrid rice" and 
a 
chief technical advisor for the technology, wrote inscriptions 
for the TV programs made by the seed company in Lingling 
Prefecture of Hunan. 
  Teaching materials, both in English and Chinese, have also 
been published by China Scientific and Technological Publishing 
House in tandem with the TV programs, according to local 
officials. 

