Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] Prague, Feb 8 (CTK) -- KORENE (Roots), the first 
Slovak magazine published in the Czech Republic, has just been 
launched by the community of Slovaks. The 24-page monthly has a 
print run of 10,000 and will cost six korunas. Over 300,000 
Slovaks live in the Czech Republic, making up about 3 percent of 
the population. 
  The new periodical is a non-political family magazine aimed 
at Slovaks living in the Czech Republic, editor-in-chief Nada 
Vokusova told journalists today. The magazine will carry 
interviews, reports, information about the activities of the 
community of Slovaks in various regions, a regular overview of 
the most important events in Slovakia and pages for women and 
children. 
  Vokusova said that a large amount of space will be devoted 
to 
letters from readers and legal advice. "At the moment, Slovaks 
living in the Czech Republic -- whether they hold Czech or 
Slovak citizenship -- face problems regarding doing business or 
insurance and need qualified advice," she said. 
  KORENE will receive an annual 800,000 korunas (approximately 
$27,000) grant from the Czech Government. Another Slovak 
periodical published in the Czech Republic is the monthly 
SLOVENSKE LISTY (Slovak Pages), which is put out by the Club of 
Slovak Culture and the Democratic Alliance of Slovaks. 

