BFN 

  [Text] Chengdu, April 11 (XINHUA) -- "Less children, less 
burden; late child-bearing, early money-making" has gradually 
replaced the formerly deeply-rooted "more children, more 
happiness" to become the most popular life maxims in rural 
Sichuan Province. 
  Local official said this marked the great changes in the 
Chinese farmer's concept of marriage and child-bearing. 
  Gan Zeqiong, a young woman in Pingan village near Chengdu, 
the provincial capital, participated in the marriage education 
schools held by the local family-planning department, together 
with her husband, where they were taught not only necessary 
knowledge on sex and pregnancy but also techniques of crop 
planting, breeding and market information by technicians. 
  During the two years since then, the couple has been busy in 
planting fruit trees and selling fruit and has decided to put 
off their child-bearing plan to what they said will be "a more 
appropriate time in the future." 
  In the district where the couple lives, almost every young 
farmer has grasped more than one practical technique. 
  Devoting most of their time and energy to utilizing these 
techniques and to their own capability to make more money, more 
than 2,000 young farmers have postponed their schedule for 
weddings and raising families and many young one-child couples 
have even voluntarily abstained from giving birth to the second 
one. 
  They have fully understood that it's more the quality of 
life 
than the scale of the family that matters in bringing about 
family happiness. 
  Sichuan is the country's most heavily populated province 
with 
110 million permanent residents, with those in rural areas 
accounting for 80 percent of the total. 
  Alteration of most farmers' concepts of marriage and child- 
bearing has clearly begun to lighten the population burden in 
this western province, whose birth rate and natural increase 
rate of population in the year 1993 were 16.7 percent and 0.957 
percent, respectively, both among the lowest of the country. 

