BFN 

<F P=106> [Report by M.J. Tzou and Debbie Kuo] </F>
  [Text] Paris, April 22 (CNA) -- France's Cogema [General 
Nuclear Materials Company] and the Taiwan Power Company 
[Taipower] are set to enter into a deal whereby Cogema will 
provide Taipower with the technologies it needs to manage and 
safely recycle Taiwan's stock of nuclear waste. 
  While meeting with a Taiwan power company delegation, Cogema 
deputy managing director Bernard Lenail said recycling spent 
fuel discharged from nuclear power plants to produce usable fuel 
like uranium and plutonium has become a world trend, especially 
now that stocks of uranium have decreased substantially 
worldwide over the past decade. 
  Lenail said Taipower cannot either economically or 
environmentally afford to keep storing waste from Taiwan's three 
nuclear power plants, which Taipower says has accumulated at an 
alarming pace since the first plant became operational in 1987. 
  Nuclear fuel recycling is well established in France, Lenail 
said. More than 80 percent of the world's spent nuclear waste 
is reprocessed there. 
  The Taipower mission visited an enriched uranium processing 
plant in Nimes in southern France and a major nuclear waste 
processing plant in Troyes in central France during its 
fact-finding trip. 
  The mission members said they were impressed by the 
environmental "miracles" they saw in the vicinity of the nuclear 
plants, including fish and crocodile ponds using hot water 
dischargd from the plants, green fields, and herds of grazing 
cows. 
  About 75 percent of France's energy comes from nuclear power 
plants, and 70 percent of the fuel consumed by Taipower's three 
nuclear power plants is supplied by France. 

