BFN 

  [Text] The Namko Hydroelectric Dam project will be built in 
Oudomsai Province with a generation capacity of 1,500 kilowatts. 
The dam structure will consist of a 6-meter high concrete water 
brake to house the primary and secondary power generators 
located on an area of 498 square meters, propelled by water from 
a 1.95 by 3.275 meter window of the 836-meter long water tunnel. 
An irrigation canal 1,934-meters long will be built from the 
dam to irrigated areas. The construction of the project will 
begin in November 1994 and will be completed within 26 months 
with a loan of 59.9 million yuan from the PRC Government. A 
construction contract for the project has already been signed 
with the PRC's National Comprehensive Tools Import-Export 
Company. 
  The contract to build this hydroelectric dam was signed in 
Vientiane on 17 June between Sommano Phonsena, representing the 
Electrification Installation Company of the Lao People's 
Democratic Republic [LPDR] and Ms. (Ze Ping-fu), representing 
the PRC's Comprehensive Tools Import-Export Company, in the 
presence of Somboun Latsasombat, LPDR deputy minister of 
industry and handicrafts; Li Jiazhong, PRC ambassador 
extraordinary and plenipotentiary to Laos; and a number of 
cadres concerned from both sides. 

