BFN 

  [Text] Ankara--At least 24 people were reported "missing" 
in Turkey in March 1994, while 40 others allegedly died under 
police torture or in extrajudicial killings, the Turkish Human 
Rights Association (IHD) claimed in its monthly report. 
  In the report, summarizing Turkey's human rights record in 
March, the IHD said 2,198 people had been detained nationwide in 
the month in question and only 124 of these had been placed 
under arrest. 
  The IHD added that in the same month, writers and publishers 
in Turkey had been sentenced to a total of 12,326 months 
imprisonment and fined TL [Turkish lira] 3.4 trillion. 
Sixty-four journalists are still in prison, it said. 
  The 30-page Turkish report, released by the association over 
the weekend, also put the number of "state forces and guerrillas 
losing their lives in the war" at 500, referring to the ongoing 
clashes between Kurdish separatists and Turkish forces in the 
Southeast. 
  According to the report, civilian and state security courts 
in March demanded prison terms totaling 576 months and fines of 
up to TL 2.5 billion for journalists and writers. 
  Most of the sentences passed and the trials underway were 
related to opinions expressed in writing. The report said a 
total of 34 "mysterious killings" had been reported in March and 
that 102 civilians had been killed. It claimed that 20 
settlements had been forcefully evacuated and/or torched. 
  Speaking on the report, IHD Chairman Akin Birdal said 
violations were increasing every day and that especially in 
March 1994, attacks had intensified on the freedoms of opinion 
and expression. 

