BFN 

  [Text] Bonn (DPA) -- In a question-and answer session on 
Wednesday [18 May] called for by Alliance 90/Greens, the parties 
represented in the Bundestag condemned the xenophobic riots in 
Magdeburg on Ascension Day [12 May]. Deputy Konrad Weiss 
(Alliance 90/Greens) harshly criticized the "hesitating work" of 
the police as well as statements and actions by Magdeburg Police 
President Antonius Stockmann. The police not only did not 
protect the attacked foreigners but even harassed them, he 
pointed out. 
  Statements by Roman Herzog, the Christian Democratic Union 
[CDU]/Christian Social Union candidate for president, concerning 
the naturalization of foreigners are practically calling for a 
manhunt, Weiss said. Social Democratic Party of Germany Deputy 
Juergen Schmude stated that Germany is beginning to change and 
we are doing nothing to stop this development. If we are not 
able to nip such developments in the bud, "we will not recognize 
our country again," Schmude said. Rolf Olderog (CDU) warned 
against condemning the police. Media reports about the riots in 
Magdeburg were often incorrect and exaggerated. Free Democratic 
Party of Germany Deputy Burgkhard Hirsch said in the debate that 
statements by Police President Antonius Stockmann, which played 
things down after the events, were worthy of a cabaret. 

