Rivera 

<F P=102>   PY3003035294 Lima LA REPUBLICA in Spanish 24 Mar 94 p 12 </F>
<F P=103> PY3003035294 </F>
<F P=104>  Lima LA REPUBLICA </F>
<F P=105>  Spanish </F>
BFN 

  [Excerpts] A high-ranking official of the Antidrug Division 
(Dinandro) has said that the arrest of Margarita Cachique Rivera 
will inevitably lead to the dismantling of the drug trafficking 
gang led by her brother Abelardo, aka "Teniente" or "Negro." 
Dinandro intelligence agents caught the woman, who was at 
large, as she was leaving one of her properties in Chorrillos. 
  The "firm" of the Cachique Rivera brothers, which also 
includes brothers Segundo, aka "Capitan" or "Guno"; Adolfo, aka 
"Alferez"; Nicolas, aka "Mayor"; and their father Gaudencio 
Cachique Sajami, is considered the Cali cartel's main cocaine 
hydrochloride supplier. 
  According to estimates by the Directorate, the gang sends to 
Colombia 1,000 kg of cocaine and 20 tons of cocaine base per 
month. 
  Margarita Cachique Rivera, her father, and her brothers are 
wanted by the Seventh Court and by the 30th Lima Court on drug 
trafficking charges. 
  Born on 7 May 1964 in Rupa Rupa district, Leoncio Prado 
Province, Huanuco, Margarita's job was to contact with 
international drug traffickers' organizations in Lima, perform 
financial operations, and buy the chemicals for the production 
of cocaine base and cocaine hydrochloride. 
  She was captured last Sunday, in the evening, in the 
vicinity 
of Alameda Premio Real Avenue, in block J, lot 16, of the La 
Encantada neighborhood in Chorrillos. She was carrying neither 
arms nor drugs, and did not resist arrest. 
  The source said: "We are aware of the Cachique Riveras' 
movements," adding that "the arrest of Margarita will give us 
positive clues for finding her brothers. Beyond all doubt, it 
is a very important arrest." 
  The Cachique Riveras, who are led by "Abelardo" or 
"Teniente," is an organization that, according to some 
specialists, is the third most important "firm" after those of 
Demetrio Chavez Penaherrera, aka "Vaticano"--whose firm is now 
led by his brother Elias, aka "Quichin" or "Sony"--and the 
Colombian Walter Simeon Vargas Arias, aka "El Ministro." 
[passage omitted] 
  According to Dinandro, "Teniente" was spotted last February 
in Boca del Manu, Madre de Dios. 
  He is believed to have travelled to that area to personally 
collect money, obtained through drug sales, from the Colombian 
"Pablito," who has operated in this department since October 
1993. 
  Antinarcotics agents have learned that "Pablito" refused to 
honor his debt, thus giving rise to a shootout between the 
henchmen of both mafia members. The Colombian, however, finally 
decided to honor his debt. 
  The Dinandro official said that "if `Pablito' had to go to 
Madre de Dios, the debt must have been very large, and also the 
drug shipment that was sold to the Colombian." 

