Language: <F P=105> Chinese </F>
Article Type:CSO 

<F P=106> [Article by reporters Xia Guangping [1115 0342 1627] and </F>
Xiang Rong [7639 2837]: "River Successfully Blocked at Ertan 
Hydroelectric Station Site] 
  [Excerpts] Panzhihua, 10 Dec -- Today the river was 
successfully blocked at the site of the Ertan hydroelectric 
power plant paving the way for next year's pouring of concrete 
for the main dam. 
  Located 46 km from Panzhihua city, the Ertan hydroelectric 
station is a key construction project of the Eighth 5-Year Plan. 
It is China's first superlarge hydroelectric power station, 
whose installed capacity will reach 3.3 million kW. The dam will 
be 240 meters high and the annual output of electricity will be 
17 billion kWh. Six hydraulic turbine generating units, each 
with a capacity of 550,000 kW, will be installed in an 
underground powerhouse on the left bank of the river. The Ertan 
hydroelectric station is being built as a joint investment by 
the central and local authorities with loans from the World 
Bank. Bids were solicited internationally for the entire main 
project, and item management was conducted in accordance with 
international practices, so that the project marks a milestone 
in China's power construction. The static investment authorized 
by the state was 10.5 billion yuan, and the dynamic investment 
will reach 21.0 billion yuan. After the station is completed and 
put into operation, in addition to the standard loan repayment 
procedure, an average of 700 million yuan in profit taxes will 
be paid annually, and about 500 million yuan in funds will be 
accumulated for use in Sichuan's hydroelectric power development. 

