BFN 

<F P=106> [Report by Euclides M. Corro R.] </F>
  [Text] Ignacio Gutierrez Pita, Mexican ambassador to 
Panama, announced yesterday that his government will improve and 
strengthen bilateral and multilateral relations with the 
administration of Panamanian President-elect Ernesto Perez 
Balladares. 
  Gutierrez Pita told LA ESTRELLA DE PANAMA that several 
important cooperation accords are already being discussed. He 
added that conversations with business groups from his country 
are underway to get them to participate in projects in Panama. 
  The diplomat revealed that he has already met with Dr. Perez 
Balladares and Foreign Minister-designate Gabriel Lewis Galindo. 
He said "it is very positive since the day following his 
proclamation, the Panamanian president-elect has confirmed his 
interest in expanding and enriching his relationship with 
Mexico." 
  Among the projects Mexican companies are interested in or 
already are participating in are the Esti Hydroelectric project, 
the Northern Highway, and the widening of the Panama City-Colon 
road. 
  In addition, contacts have been made with tourism promotion 
enterprises. These enterprises have expressed special interest 
in the Fort Amador project. 
  Mexico is interested in helping to resolve the problem of 
public transportation and taxis in our country, and various 
options have been offered to finance the purchase of buses and 
taxis. It is only expected that local banks show interest in 
financing such projects by offering credit lines. 
  Regarding the possibility of Panama joining NAFTA, Gutierrez 
Pita said, "it would be premature to speak of accords, 
particularly since the new government will not assume office 
until 1 September. [no closing quotation marks as published] 
  The ambassador warned he "only" discussed "with Dr. Perez 
Balladares and Lewis Galindo a work program that could be 
pursued following the presidential inauguration." 

