BFN 

  [Text] COB [Bolivian Labor Federation] members yesterday 
staged a protest demonstration in downtown Sucre. The 
demonstration, which was followed by a rally held at 25 Mayo 
Square, harshly criticized the government. 
  [Begin unidentified union leader recording] We want to 
repudiate the attitude of government officials in Potosi who 
fired shots at fellow peasants [words indistinct] as a result of 
which two peasants, one journalist and one union leader were 
seriously injured. [end recording] 
  Later the demonstrators headed for the police precinct 
building where they demanded the release of student leader 
Panfilo Lora. A clash almost ensued and this compelled the 
police to use tear gas to disperse the demonstrations. Here is 
what the local police commander said. 
  [Begin police commander recording] In view of the aggressive 
attitude adopted by the demonstrators, we had no other 
alternative than to restore order. [end recording] 
  After this incident, student leader Panfilo Lora was 
released. 
  [Begin Panfilo Lora recording] I was held incommunicado for 
five days, which is in open violation of the law. 
  Father Mauricio Tocardif, the general director of the Accion 
Cultural Loyola, has demanded that Bolivian officials conduct a 
full investigation into the death of reputed journalist 
Francisco Cruz, the organizer of the Hazlo Potosi program. 
  [Begin Tocardif recording] All sectors with the law in hand, 
must clarify this situation, find those guilty, and let the law 
decide what should be done. No one should take justice into his 
own hands nor adopt violent attitudes that do not lead to any 
positive or useful solutions. [end recording] 
  The government has reported that Potosi peasant Hilarion 
Mamani was killed by shots fired by a .22 caliber revolver which 
is not the type gun used by either the police or Armed Forces. 
  The official government report states that Mamani was killed 
during a clash among those setting up roadblocks. 

