BFN 

<F P=106> [Article by "(dla)"] </F>
  [Text] Prague--Support for authoritarian methods of 
government in the Czech Republic has declined slightly. This is 
apparent from an opinion poll conducted by STEM [Center for 
Empirical Research] in June among 1,506 respondents over age 18. 
  While 61.3 percent of citizens expressed themselves in favor 
of such government in December 1991, this figure has now 
declined to 48.9 percent. Supporters of the firm method are 
found more in the left wing (76 percent of the extreme left 
wing; 60 percent of the left-wing oriented) and the political 
center (51 percent) than in the right wing (42 percent). A firm 
government and a leader who would state clearly what has to be 
done are favored primarily by supporters of the Assembly for the 
Republic-Republican Party of Czechoslovakia [SPR-RSC], followed 
by supporters of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia 
[KSCM], the Czech Social Democratic Party [CSSD], and the 
Christian Democratic Union-Czechoslovak People's Party 
[KDU-CSL]. KDU-CSL (61.9 percent), CSSD (61.1 percent), SPR-RSC 
(60.3 percent), and KSCM (52 percent) voters consider extensive 
executive powers for the president to be acceptable. Civic 
Democratic Alliance [ODA] voters are slightly more inclined 
toward a firm government (38.1 percent) and strong leader (36.9 
percent) than Civic Democratic Party [ODS] voters (34.7 and 33.9 
percent). ODA supporters also support a strong president (45.4 
percent) slightly more than ODS supporters (43.3 percent). 

