CSO 

<F P=106> [Article by Stewart Tendler, crime correspondent: "Drug </F>
Police Fear Rise in DIY Cannabis"] 
  [Text] A potent home-grown variety of cannabis is making 
rapid inroads into the underground drugs market, according to 
the National Criminal Intelligence Service (NCIS). 
  The NCIS annual drugs survey, issued yesterday, reports that 
20 production sites for "skunk" were found in Britain last year, 
mainly in Wales. Police discovered anything from a hundred to a 
thousand plants being grown in basements and garages, using 
hydroponics and market gardening techniques such as high 
intensity lighting. 
  The plants grow more quickly than cannabis cultivated out of 
doors. Growers can produce cannabis worth &pound;2,500 to 
&pound;4,000 
from a metre of cultivated plants. The conditions give the 
plants very high concentrations of THC, the active chemical, 
which produces effects similar to LSD. 
  Stuart Wesley, director of the drugs division at NCIS, said 
there was concern at the increasing appearance of skunk. In 
Holland, skunk plants supply 20 to 50 per cent of cannabis 
consumed in coffee houses and are said to be second only to 
tulip cultivation in Dutch agriculture. 
  Skunk is part of an intensifying drugs scene. Police are 
making recorded seizures of amphetamines, and 31 murders or 
attempted murders in London last year were linked to crack 
cocaine. There are also fears that steroid abuse is growing. The 
Home Office is considering whether steroid drugs should be 
controlled by misuse of drugs legislation. 
  Det. Chief Supt Tony White, head of the NCIS drugs policy 
unit, said that there was evidence of steroid users starting to 
mix with the main drugs underworld. One research project into 
needle exchange programmes had shown steroid users accounted for 
28 per cent of the clients. 
  The NCIS figures show that cannabis remains the most popular 
drug and last year 58,000 kilograms were seized. Amphetamines 
are the second favourite and in 1993 seizures rose by 65 per 
cent to 995 kg. Police also found 18 illicit amphetamine 
laboratories. 
  The survey reports that crack cocaine is appearing more 
frequently outside London and makes up half of all cocaine 
seizures, which last year fell by 70 per cent from 2,250 kg in 
1992 to 750: the high 1992 figure was caused by two very large 
seizures. Discoveries of heroin rose by 88 per cent to 120 kg. 

