Language: <F P=105> Spanish </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] Lima, 9 Mar (EFE) -- A Peruvian Journalist 
Association (CPP) spokesman said on 9 March that some 30 
Peruvian journalists are prisoners in various Peruvian jails on 
charges of maintaining relations with terrorist groups. 
  A group of imprisoned reporters have decided to begin a 
protest hunger strike at the Campo Grande Lima prison, demanding 
that courts speed up the trials in which they are involved, a 
spokesman said. 
  The CPP official also denounced the case of journalist Juan 
Tuanama, a reporter for the weekly magazine JUNGLE of Tingo 
Maria, who remains in jail despite a judge's order to release 
him after being acquitted. Tuanama is accused of participating 
in various terrorist acts during the time he was in prison, the 
source said. 
  Other arrested journalists are charged with the crime of 
"advocating terrorism" because they worked at the newspapers EL 
DIARIO and CAMBIO, the newspapers of the Shining Path Maoist 
gang and the Tupac Amaru Revolutionary Movement (MRTA), 
respectively. 
  "They worked on those publications when the newspapers were 
legal leftist outlets and had nothing to do with the subversive 
groups who took over the newspapers afterward," the CPP 
spokesman said. 
  The official also reported that the Supreme Court annulled a 
lower court decision releasing journalists Alicia Figueroa and 
Gisela Gutarra and ordered that they be arrested again. 
  Imprisoned journalist Monica Palomo, who is five months 
pregnant, has been urgently sent to a Lima hospital due to a 
placenta detachment that is threatening to cause the abortion of 
her baby. 

