Language: <F P=105> Thai </F>
Article Type:CSO 

  [Text] At 0200 hours on 6 December 1993, Police Lieutenant 
Colonel Samphan Inthai, the commander of Border Patrol Police 
[BPP] Company 226 in Phibun Mangsahan District, Ubon Ratchathani 
Province, Police Captain Sakda Tochongmon, the deputy company 
commander, and Police 2d Lieutenant Singkhon Samakkhun, the 
commander of "CK" Company 225, set up a checkpoint near the 
headquarters of the Huai Tat Ton Forest Preserve Unit along the 
Ban Woembuk Nikhom 2 highway. A blue Datsun sedan, license No 
2K-4255 Bangkok, stopped at the checkpoint. The people in the 
car looked suspicious and so the officials conducted a search. 
They found 38 sticks of dried marijuana wrapped in newspaper and 
clear plastic. Each stick weighed 1 kg for a total of 38 kg. The 
marijuana had been packed in a sea bag and concealed in the rear 
seat. The suspects were identified as Mr. Chanti Songsoem, age 
30, who lives at 67/1 Sisaket Road, Warin Chamrap Subdistrict, 
Warin Chamrap District, Ubon Ratchathani Province, and Mr. Sanit 
Bunchak, age 36, who lives at 43 Thetsaban 58 Road, Warin 
Chamrap District, Ubon Ratchathani Province. 
  During interrogation, the two suspects said that Sergeant 
Chatchawan, surname unknown, had hired them to transport 
marijuana at 1,000 baht per kg. They had already made four 
trips. They had purchased the marijuana in Chong Chiam District 
at a cost of 500 baht per kg. The suspects were taken and turned 
over to Police 1st Lieutenant Wanchai Ruangsi, the duty officer 
at the provincial police station in Sirinthon District, for 
further handling of the case. 

