BFN 

  MINERS DEMAND PROTECTED MARKET: Marian Mesiarik, chairman 
of the Trade Union of Mining, Geology, and Oil Industry Workers, 
said after a meeting of the trade union's leadership at Lucky on 
18 March that "the time is ripe to protect the Slovak brown coal 
market." The concept approved by the Slovak Government, under 
which almost 40 percent of Slovakia's annual consumption of 10 
million tonnes of brown coal is to come from domestic mines, is 
not being observed, Mesiarik said, because small and 
medium-sized consumers, in particular, prefer imported Czech 
coal. This coal is cheaper, according to Mesiarik, because both 
the coal price and freight fares remain regulated in the Czech 
Republic. Mesiarik said that miners are ready to resort to 
"pressure actions" if the "negative trend," which poses a threat 
to mining jobs, continues. (Bratislava PRAVDA in Slovak 19 Mar 
94 p 2) 
  TOURISM REVENUES, PROSPECTS: According to Milena 
Jankovicova, director of the Tourism Section at the Slovak 
Ministry of Economy, Slovakia's foreign exchange earnings from 
tourism increased from a mere $28 million in 1989 to $241 
million in 1993 and are estimated to reach $600 million annually 
by 1996. Slovakia has 45,300 hotel beds, 4,500 beds in trade 
union-owned recreational facilities, almost 11,000 beds in spa 
resorts, almost 50,000 beds in company-owned recreational 
facilities, and 200,000 beds in privately owned recreational 
facilities. More than 12,000 businesses with 65,000 employees 
are involved in the provision of services for tourists. 
(Bratislava PRAVDA in Slovak 19 Mar 94 p 5 
  FEBRUARY UNEMPLOYMENT FIGURES: Labor offices in the Slovak 
Republic registered 376,030 job-seekers at the end of February, 
3,140 fewer than in January. The rate of unemployment thus 
dropped from 14.88 percent in January to 14.76 percent in 
February. A total of 110,046 job seekers were collecting 
unemployment benefits at the end of February, 8,182 fewer than 
in January. The number of unemployed included 44,284 school 
graduates, compared with 46,842 in January. Employers reported 
8,104 job vacancies in February, compared with 8,290 the month 
before. The number of job-seekers per vacant job was 46 in 
February, which is an improvement over the December 1993 ratio 
of 48 to 1. The districts with the highest rate of unemployment 
are Rimavska Sobota (26.65 percent in February), Spisska Nova 
Ves (24.10 percent), and Vranov nad Toplou (23.99 percent); 
those with the lowest rate of unemployment are Bratislava-City 
(4.31 percent), Trencin (8.28 percent), and Kosice-City (9.99 
percent). (Bratislava SMENA in Slovak 21 Mar 94 p 5) 
  STOCK MARKET INDEX: In a joint article in the economic daily 
HOSPODARSKE NOVINY, the Bratislava Securities Exchange (BCPB) 
and the Austrian-owned Creditanstalt Bratislava a.s. investment 
company announced the launching of SAX, the Slovak stock market 
index. The index is based on the development of the shares of 
eight companies -- Slovnaft, East Slovak Iron Works, Nafta 
Gbely, Vseobecna Uverova Banka (General Credit Bank, VUB), 
Slovenska Pojistovna (Slovak Insurance Company), Biotika 
Slovenska Lupca, Investicna a Rozvojova Banka (Investment and 
Development Bank, IRB), and Ozeta Trencin. These shares have 
been selected on the basis of their crucial share in the BCPB's 
turnover (79.07 percent since trading on the BCPB started), 
their liquidity, their market capitalization, and the 
availability of information (verified by respected auditing 
firms) on the conduct of their business. The starting day of 
the index was determined to be 14 September 1993, the first day 
when all the shares included in SAX had their price quoted on 
the BCPB; the initial value for that day has been set at 100. 
The SAX value for 21 March 1994 was 397.97, which means an 
almost 400 percent increase of the index in seven months. 
(Bratislava HOSPODARSKE NOVINY BURZOVE NOVINY Supplement in 
Slovak 22 Mar 94 p 1; Bratislava HOSPODARSKE NOVINY in Slovak 22 
Mar 94 p 1) 
  AUSTRIAN BANKS' CURRENCY TRADING: Following initial 
restraint and fears of the Slovak koruna's possible devaluation, 
Austrian banks have started selling and buying the Slovak 
currency. They offer 32 Austrian schillings for Sk100, while 
Austrian travelers to Slovakia are charged 40 Austrian 
schillings for Sk100. The exchange rate of the Czech koruna is 
slightly higher than the Slovak koruna's exchange rate: 
Austrian banks buy 100 Czech korunas for 37.50 to 38.50 
Austrian schillings and sell them for 44.50 Austrian schillings. 
Strictly speaking, the Vienna trade in the Slovak koruna is 
illegal because it is not convertible and because it is 
forbidden to take it across the border. (Bratislava NARODNA 
OBRODA in Slovak 22 Mar 94 p 2) 
  CAR SALES: A total of 60,868 passenger cars and small 
utility vans were sold in Slovakia in 1993, of which 21,570 were 
sold by official importers and another 5,500 by other trading 
companies. The only domestic manufacturer, TAZ Trnava, which 
produces small utility vans, sold 796 vehicles in Slovakia last 
year and had thus a market share of 1.31 percent. Individual 
imports of passenger cars are estimated at 83,000, which is a 22 
percent increase over 1992. In the category of cars sold by 
official importers, the number one marque was Skoda (14,793 
vehicles), followed by Volkswagen (1,541), and Lada (1,483). 
Only three other manufacturers managed to sell more than 500 
cars in Slovakia in 1993 -- Seat (595), Ford (543), and Tavria 
(508). (Bratislava REPUBLIKA in Slovak 23 Mar 94 p 6) 
  ENERGY PRODUCTION, CONSUMPTION: Slovak power stations 
delivered to the power grid 23,417 Gigawatt hours (GWh) of 
electricity in 1993, 1,077 GWh more than the year before. A 
slight decline in the generation of electricity by nuclear, 
steam, and company-owned power stations was more than offset by 
the increased production of hydroelectric power stations, 
particularly the Gabcikovo plant. Electricity consumption 
totalled 27,408 GWh, which was 1,627 GWh more than in 1992. The 
most important foreign supplier of electricity to Slovakia was 
the Czech Republic, which accounted for 86 percent of Slovak 
electricity imports. (Bratislava HOSPODARSKE NOVINY in Slovak 23 
Mar 94 p 2) 
  BANKS PROFIT ON CURRENCY SPLIT: According to Marian Jusko, 
vice governor of the Slovak National Bank (NBS), the NBS and the 
Czech National Bank (CNB) both profited from the currency split 
of 8 February 1993 and the concomitant withdrawal of the 
"federal" currency. As Jusko told the Bratislava daily SME, 
preliminary data indicate that the two central banks had 
withdrawn 3.5 to 4 billion federal korunas less than had been in 
circulation. This difference, the bulk of which is accounted for 
by banknotes that had been illegally abroad, will represent the 
two central banks' profit. Whereas the NBS had withdrawn 5 
billion korunas less than its agreed proportion of the federal 
currency in circulation, the CNB had withdrawn 1 to 1.5 billion 
more. The issue of how to divide the profit will be subject of 
talks between the two central banks' banking councils, Jusko 
told SME. (Bratislava SME in Slovak 23 Mar 94 p 1) 
  BUILDING INDUSTRY RECESSION: The construction industry has 
shed 115,000 people since 1990 and the construction volume has 
fallen by 43 percent, according to Gabriel Blaskovic, executive 
director of the Union of Slovak Contractors (ZSPS). In 1993 
alone, the volume of building output declined 23.8 percent, 
compared with 1992. Only 5 percent of Slovakia's working 
population is engaged in the construction sector, Blaskovic 
said, compared with 7 to 9 percent in "advanced countries." 
Addressing a ZSPS general assembly in Banska Bystrica on 23 
March, Blaskovic said that, together with retailing and tourism, 
the building industry is "the best transformed branch of the 
national economy." Whereas six years ago there were 83 building 
firms in Slovakia employing an average of 2,400 people, today 
there are 1,134 firms with under 25 employees and 520 firms with 
25 and more employees. The ZSPS associates 470 construction 
firms representing 60 percent of Slovakia's building capacity. 
Blaskovic also said that, compared with the "European 
standard," Slovakia is short of 500,000 apartments. Only 14,047 
apartments were completed in 1993, of which 8,205 were built by 
private individuals, 2,217 by communities, over 3,700 by housing 
cooperatives, and more than 150 by companies for their own 
employees. Another 50,000 apartments are currently under 
construction and, given the present speed of construction, it 
will take up to 10 years to complete them. The number of 
housing starts dropped to 4,387 last year and the export of 
building work dropped from 5.8 billion korunas in 1992 to Sk2.8 
billion in 1993. The high credit interest rates of over 20 
percent are responsible for an "unfavorable investment climate" 
and aggravate building firms' insolvency and indebtedness. 
According to ZSPS Chairman Frantisek Slavik, the building 
industry employed more than 143,000 people in 1993. (Bratislava 
NARODNA OBRODA in Slovak 23 Mar 94 pp 1,2; Bratislava 
HOSPODARSKE NOVINY in Slovak 24 Mar 94 p 2; Bratislava REPUBLIKA 
in Slovak 24 Mar 94 p 3; Bratislava HOSPODARSKE NOVINY in Slovak 
28 Mar 94 p 2) 
  FORECAST FOR 1994: The MESA 10 research company, whose aim 
is 
to provide objective macroeconomic and social analyses that are 
independent of state agencies and institutions, predicts a 
further 2 to 3 percent decline in GDP in 1994, regardless of the 
method of reform policy pursued by the government. The rate of 
inflation will be in the range of 24.5 to 28 percent, MESA 10 
predicts, the state budget deficit will reach Sk20 to 25 
billion, but could even reach Sk30 billion "if developments get 
out of hand," and the rate of unemployment will increase to 17 
to 19 percent. In its analysis, MESA 10 reaches the conclusion 
that "a turnabout in transformation policy is to a far greater 
extent a political problem than a purely economic problem." It 
explains Slovakia's lag behind the Czech Republic precisely by 
the "insufficient general will for transformation." (Bratislava 
HOSPODARSKE NOVINY in Slovak 24 Mar 94 p 1; Bratislava SLOVENSKY 
DENNIK in Slovak 24 Mar 94 p 3) 
  DEBT INCREASES: The Slovak Government's and the Slovak 
National Bank's "official indebtedness" reached $1.892 billion 
by 31 December 1993, up from $1.625 billion at the beginning of 
the year. The "overall gross indebtedness in foreign currency," 
which includes the debts of commercial banks, the foreign 
currency debts of the enterprise sphere, and the Slovak 
Republic's debt on the clearing account with the Czech Republic, 
amounted to $3.169 billion at the end of 1993, compared with 
$2.322 at the beginning of the year. Of the $3.169 aggregate 
end-of-1993 debt, $2.888 billion was debt in convertible 
currencies. (Bratislava HOSPODARSKE NOVINY in Slovak 24 Mar 94 
p 4) 
  REPORT ON ZSR: The Slovak Railways (ZSR), which employ 
58,000 people, is the largest employer in Slovakia. In 1993, it 
carried 64,825,000 tonnes of freight and 86.3 million 
passengers. The new ZSR management, which assumed office on 8 
April 1993, managed to reduce the ZSR's outstanding claims from 
Sk3.7 billion in November 1993 to Sk2.5 billion in February 1994 
and the ZSR's liabilities from Sk2.5 billion to Sk1.4 billion. 
This a result of mutual settlement of claims between the ZSR 
and its trading partners and of "measures adopted against 
domestic and foreign non-payers." (Bratislava HOSPODARSKE 
NOVINY in Slovak 28 Mar 94 p 3) 
  IRON WORKS PROFIT: According to Peter Hrinko, president of 
the East Slovak Iron Works [VSZ] a.s., the company made a profit 
of Sk195.5 million in 1993, which was 82.7 percent of the 
planned profit of Sk236 million. All VSZ subsidiaries ended the 
year with a profit, with the exception of VSZ Steel (loss of 
Sk58 million) and VSZ Industria (loss of Sk535 million). The 
new VSZ Board of Directors, which was elected in December 1993, 
has paid off within three months Sk1.5 billion of the VSZ's 
Sk2.1 billion debt toward the state budget. By the end of the 
year it wants to settle Sk850 million worth of debts owed to its 
suppliers of capital goods. (Bratislava PRAVDA in Slovak 28 Mar 
94 p 3) 
  STEEL EXPORTS TO EU: The aim of the meeting of a joint 
committee of the Slovak Republic and the European Union (EU) in 
Bratislava on 28 March was to amend the regime for Slovak steel 
exports to EU countries. The European Union offered additional 
quotas for Slovak steel exports in 1994 that would be exempt 
from duty. The offer was for an extra 20,000 tonnes of hot- 
rolled sheets, 100,000 tonnes of hot-rolled strips, and 5,000 
tonnes of seamless tubes. The quantities in question will be 
exported to the FRG for further processing. Slovakia will also 
be allowed to export 33,000 tonnes of steel products to the 
former GDR over and above the original quota. On the other 
hand, the European Union demanded that Slovak exports of 
hot-rolled sheets for May-December 1993 be subjected to a 
supplementary customs duty because, according to EU statistics, 
these exports were in excess of the approved quota. The Slovak 
side "proved" that the EU statistics are inaccurate and 
recommended to the joint committee that no supplementary duty be 
levied on any steel products exported to the European Union. 
(Bratislava PRAVDA in Slovak 29 Mar 94 p 2) 
  NUCLEAR CLOSURE, ENERGY CAPACITY: Slovakia will not need any 
more energy capacity, nuclear or otherwise, to meet its domestic 
needs, the Austrian news agency APA said on 30 March, citing an 
estimate by the Viennese representative of the French company 
Electricite de France (EdF), Jean-Alain Vaujour. APA was 
reacting to a television announcement by Slovak Economic 
Minister Petr Magvasi that the first Czechoslovak -- now Slovak 
-- nuclear power station at Jaslovske Bohunice, west Slovakia, 
could be adapted to prolong its life until 2000. EdF is 
Slovakia's main partner in the bringing of Mochovce nuclear 
power station, also in west Slovakia, up to Western European 
safety standards. The agency reports that the European Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (EBRD), which is investing in the 
completion and modernization of Mochovce, is asking that when 
Mochovce is opened in 1996, Slovakia closes down two blocks of 
the antiquated Bohunice station. It quotes Minister Magvasi as 
saying, however, that given the considerable cost of shutting 
down the two blocks, their closure in 1996 must be reconsidered. 
(Prague CTK in English 2004 GMT 30 Mar 94) 
  CREDIT FOR ALUMINUM PLANT: At its meeting on 29 March, the 
Slovak Government approved a government guarantee for the 
$40-million first installment of a European Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) credit to finance the 
modernization of aluminum production in the Slovak National 
Uprising (SNP) Works at Ziar nad Hronom. The $95-million second 
installment of the EBRD credit and the subsequent entry by the 
Norwegian Hydroaluminium Oslo company and the EBRD as 
shareholders into the Slovalco company (a joint venture of SNP 
Ziar nad Hronom and the two prospective foreign partners) will 
be discussed by the government at a later date. The two 
prospective partners are making their $30- million investment in 
Slovalco conditional on a reduced electricity price for the 
aluminum plant, which should not exceed 3 cents per kilowatt 
hour. However, even this calculation is based on a projected 
aluminum price of $1,700 per tonne, which is $500 above the 
current price of aluminum on world markets. At the same 
meeting, the government did not accept the proposal by the 
Slovensky Energeticky Podnik (Slovak Energy Company, SEP) state 
enterprise that the state reduce SEP payments to the state 
budget "until the new tariff policy in the sphere of electricity 
prices becomes fully operative." SEP justified its proposal by 
the need for long-term low-price electricity deliveries to 
Slovalco, which will consume about 6 percent of Slovakia's 
electricity. (Bratislava SME in Slovak 30 Mar 94 p 1) 
  CREDIT WELCOMED: Jozef Pittner, director general of SNP Ziar 
nad Hronom, welcomed the provision of a government guarantee for 
an EBRD credit for the aluminum maker as a "competent decision 
resulting from the demonstrable effectiveness of the project." 
According to Pittner, the technology used will guarantee energy 
consumption that will be 17 percent lower than the world 
average. Besides, the cost of the new electrolysis and the 
other facilities foreseen in the project will represent only 
about 60 percent of the cost of a similar aluminum plant 
anywhere in the world. The modernized plant will also meet the 
"strictest European environmental norms," Pittner said. The 
involvement of foreign capital in the project will make it 
possible to settle the claims of more than 170 domestic and 
foreign suppliers, to launch the first of the projected 172 
electrolyzers in October this year, and to start producing 
105,000 tonnes of aluminum annually as of 1995. (Bratislava 
NARODNA OBRODA in Slovak 2 Apr 94 pp 1, 2) 
  JANUARY TRADE DEFICIT: Imports to the Slovak Republic 
amounted to 13.565 billion Slovak korunas (Sk) in January 1994, 
compared with exports of Sk12.545 billion. More than 42 percent 
of imports came from the Czech Republic. This transpires from 
statistics of the Central Customs Administration of the Slovak 
Republic. Slovakia had a balance of trade surplus with EU 
countries in January, having exported Sk3.75 billion and 
imported Sk3.40 billion worth of goods. EU countries accounted 
for 29.89 percent of the Slovak Republic's exports and 25.08 
percent of its imports. (Bratislava HOSPODARSKE NOVINY in Slovak 
31 Mar 94 p 2) 
  PLANT PRIVATIZATION RAISES QUESTIONS: The former government 
of Vladimir Meciar approved the privatization project for the 
Kovohuty Krompachy state enterprise on 11 March -- that is, on 
the day of its dismissal by the National Council of the Slovak 
Republic. The company, whose book value is Sk1.2 billion, was 
sold directly to the Coper Krompachy Ltd. for Sk300 million to 
be repaid over a period of 10 years. At the same time, the 
Coper Ltd. pledged to invest Sk500 million in the metallurgical 
company in the course of 10 years. As G. Palacka, state 
secretary at the Ministry of Privatization, told the daily SME, 
the offer advanced by Coper Ltd. was worse than that of an 
unspecified "U.S. company" that supposedly offered to pay Sk300 
million and invest Sk800 million in Krompachy over the next six 
years. Quoting a "source that does not wish to be named," SME 
reported that the documents on the privatization of Kovohuty 
Krompachy were signed during the company director's business 
trip to Russia by his deputy. According to SME, the Coper Ltd. 
subsequently installed this man as company director. (Bratislava 
SME in Slovak 2 Apr 94 p 1) 
  GASOLINE PRICES: The Ministry of Finance issued a decree 
changing the maximum prices of gasoline effective 1 April. The 
new maximum prices are Sk18.50 per liter for 91-octane gasoline, 
Sk19.10 for unleaded 95-octane gasoline, Sk19.50 for leaded 
95-octane gasoline, and Sk15.80 for diesel fuel. (Bratislava SME 
in Slovak 2 Apr 94 p 2) 
  UNSTAMPED CIGARETTES OUTLAWED: The sale of domestically 
manufactured as well as imported cigarettes and other tobacco 
products that are not provided with a protective stamp bearing 
the state emblem of the Slovak Republic becomes illegal in 
Slovakia as of 1 April 1994. The main reason for "stamping" 
cigarettes is to protect the market against smuggled cigarettes 
and to prevent tax evasion. An exception has been granted to 
Czech and Slovak manufacturers of cigarettes packed in so-called 
hard boxes, the stamping of which will start in July. The sale 
of unstamped Czech and Slovak cigarettes packed in hard boxes 
will be banned as of 1 October 1994. (Bratislava SME in Slovak 2 
Apr 94 p 3) 
  SLOVAK ELECTRICITY GRID: The Zilina-based Slovensky 
Energeticky Dispecing (Slovak Power Control Board, SED) assumed 
control over the electricity grid in Slovakia as of 1 April 
1994. On the basis of an agreement concluded between Ceske 
Energeticke Zavody (Czech Energy Works, CEZ) a.s. Prague and 
Slovensky Energeticky Podnik (Slovak Energy Company, SEP) state 
enterprise Bratislava, joint control over the electricity grids 
in the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic from the power 
control board in Prague has ended. (Bratislava REPUBLIKA in 
Slovak 2 Apr 94 p 2) 
  PRIVATIZATION OF FORESTS: Of the 788,633 hectares of forests 
for which restitution claims had been filed, 547,045 hectares 
were returned to private ownership by 1 January 1994. Private 
owners now hold 28 percent of all forests in Slovakia. 
(Bratislava HOSPODARSKE NOVINY in Slovak 31 Mar 94 p 2) 
  IMF, WORLD BANK, EBRD REPRESENTATIVES: The Slovak Government 
appointed Vladimir Masar, governor of the Slovak National Bank, 
as Slovakia's representative in the IMF and Finance Minister 
Rudolf Filkus as his "alternate." Deputy Prime Minister Brigita 
Schmognerova will represent the Slovak Republic in the World 
Bank (alternate: Vladimir Masar) and Finance Minister Rudolf 
Filkus in the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
(alternate: Vladimir Masar). (Bratislava REPUBLIKA in Slovak 31 
Mar 94 p 2) 
  CURRENCY PACT WITH HUNGARY: Vladimir Masar, governor of the 
Slovak National Bank, and Peter Bod, president of the Hungarian 
National Bank, signed an agreement in Budapest on the use of 
national currencies in "tourism and noncommercial payments" 
between the two countries. Under the agreement, Slovak citizens 
travelling to Hungary will be able to take up to 10,000 
Hungarian forints to Hungary, instead of the 2,000 forints 
permitted thus far. Hungarian citizens will be able to take 
across the border to Slovakia 4,000 Slovak korunas [Sk], instead 
of Sk2,000. The two currencies' exchange rate will be 
determined "on market principles." (Bratislava HOSPODARSKE 
NOVINY in Slovak 31 Mar 94 p 7) 
  FOREIGN INVESTMENT RANKING: According to the INSTITUTIONAL 
INVESTOR magazine, Slovakia ranks 59th among 153 countries in 
terms of trustworthiness with respect to foreign investment. It 
received 31.6 out of 100 possible points (Switzerland in first 
place received 92.2 points) and ranked fourth among the 
postcommunist countries, behind the Czech Republic (40th place), 
Hungary (43), and Slovenia (57), but ahead of Poland (62). 
(Bratislava SME in Slovak 31 Mar 94 p 1) 
  PRODUCTION EXTENDED: At its meeting on 29 March the Slovak 
Government canceled two government resolutions of 9 July 1991 
and 21 December 1993 on halting the production of viscose rayon 
in the Istrochem Bratislava state enterprise and agreed with the 
continued operation of the viscose rayon production facilities 
until 31 December 1995. Environment Minister Juraj Hrasko said 
the government's decision was conditional on "permanent 
monitoring of the emissions and odor of pollutants" and on the 
"regulation of production" in the event of the population being 
"inconvenienced by odorous substances." (Bratislava SLOVENSKY 
DENNIK in Slovak 2 Apr 94 p 2) 
  CZECH TRUCK PROBLEM AFFECTS SLOVAKS: About 70 percent of the 
1,560 employees of the Automobilova Vyroba Cadca (AVC) a.s., the 
former Tatra company, will stay home from 5 April until the end 
of the month and collect 60 percent of their average wages, on 
the basis of an agreement concluded between the management and 
the trade union organization. The suspension of production for a 
whole month is necessary because the main customer, the Czech 
truck maker Tatra Koprivnice, and a Turkish customer, the Kornas 
company, have suspended their purchases. (Bratislava HOSPODARSKE 
NOVINY in Slovak 6 Apr 94 p 2) Because Tatra Koprivnice has 
stopped ordering rear axles for its T-815 trucks, the Tatra 
Sipox a.s. at Banovce nad Bebravou will be forced to close its 
operations that produce parts for the Czech truck maker from 5 
April to 31 May. This measure will affect 1,469 employees of 
the Banovce automobile plant, who will receive 60 percent of 
their wages. (Bratislava PRAVDA in Slovak 6 Apr 94 p 16) 
  INDUSTRIAL DECLINE SLOWS: According to an analysis carried 
out by the Slovak Union of Industry, the decline of the Slovak 
industry did not come to a halt in 1993 but the rate of decline 
slowed down. The most critical situation is in engineering 
where "four-fifths of all enterprises are ripe for bankruptcy." 
The production volume of engineering enterprises declined 23 
percent in 1993 (compared with an 11 percent decline in 1992), 
sales 20 percent (17), exports 8 percent (12), domestic sales 31 
percent (47), and the number of employees 16 percent (15). 
Exports to the former USSR declined 30 percent and exports to 
OECD countries 3 percent (following a 93 percent increase in 
exports to these countries in 1992). Slovak engineering 
enterprises suffered an aggregate operating loss of Sk3.9 
billion, which was 16.6 percent of the production volume. The 
situation of electrical engineering enterprises was similarly 
grim. Their aggregate turnover declined 24 percent (14), 
production volume 19 percent (27 percent), and the number of 
employees 15 percent (22). Wood-processing, textile, and 
chemical companies also registered production decline and 
decline in sales in 1993. The only industrial branches to 
report growth for 1993 are metallurgy (5 percent rise in 
production and 3 percent rise in sales), glass (16 percent rise 
in exports and 8 percent rise in domestic sales), and the 
printing industry (8 percent production growth and 10 percent 
increase in sales). (Bratislava PRAVDA in Slovak 8 Apr 94 p 7) 
  DECREASE IN DEPOSITS, CREDITS: "Primary koruna deposits by 
non-banking entities" in commercial banks and the Slovak 
National Bank reached Sk201.8 billion at the end of January 
1994, which is a Sk7.1 billion (3.4 percent) decline against the 
end of December 1993. Deposits by the "population" amounted to 
Sk113.3 billion at the end of January and represented 56.1 
percent of the total volume of deposits. While koruna deposits 
declined in January, deposits in foreign exchange increased by 
the equivalent of Sk1.5 billion and reached the equivalent of 
Sk31.3 billion by the end of the month. When both koruna and 
foreign exchange deposits are considered, the volume of deposits 
decreased by Sk5.6 billion, that is, 2.3 percent, in January. 
Over the same period (December 1993-January 1994), the overall 
volume of koruna credits declined by Sk3.1 billion to Sk257.4 
billion, which is a 1.2 percent decline. The volume of credits 
declined most strikingly, by 6.4 percent, with respect to state 
enterprises and organizations, which, however, continue to 
account for 48.1 percent of the aggregate credit volume (Sk123.9 
billion). Credits taken by the population decreased 0.3 
percent, to Sk18.3 billion, which is 7.1 percent of the credit 
volume. The volume of credits in foreign exchange increased by 
the equivalent of Sk0.3 billion, to Sk8.8 billion. The 
aggregate credit volume (in korunas and foreign currencies) 
reached Sk266.2 billion at the end of January. (Bratislava 
SLOVENSKY DENNIK in Slovak 8 Apr 94 p 4) 
  VW BRATISLAVA RESULTS, PLANS: The Volkswagen Bratislava Ltd. 
produced 3,000 VW Passats in 1993 and, although the company 
continues to operate at a loss, the loss for 1993 was Sk120 
million lower than projected. In 1994 the company plans to 
produce 5,000 VW Passat B4 models, more than 41,000 gearboxes, 
and launch the production of the VW Golf model by the end of the 
year. The total value of production should reach Sk3.5 billion 
and make 1994 the first year in which the Bratislava plant will 
make a profit. Originally, the Bratislava plant was not expected 
to become profitable until 1997. Volkswagen Bratislava plans to 
hire 300 people this year, which will increase its workforce to 
1,500. (Bratislava REPUBLIKA in Slovak 8 Apr 94 p 7; Bratislava 
HOSPODARSKE NOVINY in Slovak 11 Apr 94 pp 1, 8) 
  CLEARING ACCOUNT DEFICIT: The clearing account between 
Slovakia and the Czech Republic showed a Slovak deficit of 40 
million European Currency Units (ECUs) as of 8 April, compared 
with 51 million ECUs at the end of March and 126 million ECUs at 
the end of February. As O. Kvacek from the Czech National Bank 
Press Department told the daily SME, the decline could be 
attributed to Slovakia's introduction of new qualitative 
requirements for food imports in February and to the 
introduction of a 10 percent import surcharge in March. 
(Bratislava SME in Slovak 9 Mar 94 p 1) 
  TRUE BUDGET DEFICIT: According to Ivan Miklos, deputy 
chairman of the Democratic Party and former minister of 
privatization, the "true deficit of the state budget of the 
Slovak Republic for 1993 is approximately Sk34 billion" and not 
Sk23 billion as officially announced. According to Miklos, it 
is necessary to add to the official deficit Sk5.8 billion in 
credit extended to Slovakia by the Czech Republic within the 
framework of the clearing account and another Sk6 billion, which 
is the size of the debt run up by state institutions, especially 
in health care, education, and the judiciary, in the course of 
1993. (Bratislava SME in Slovak 9 Apr 94 p 2) 
  OIL, GAS IMPORTS FROM RUSSIA: Slovakia currently imports oil 
and gas from Russia on the basis of monthly contracts. It 
imports from Russia an annual average of 4.5 million tonnes of 
oil and 6.8 billion cubic meters of natural gas. (Bratislava 
NARODNA OBRODA in Slovak 9 Apr 94 p 4) 
  BANK DENIED LICENSE: At its meeting in Bratislava on 8 
April, the Slovak National Bank Banking Council decided to issue 
a license to the Austrian Creditanstalt Bankverein to operate as 
an independent bank in Slovakia. It also considered an 
application from the Banska Bystrica-based Slovenska Banka 
(Banka Slovakia) a.s. but turned it down. (Bratislava NARODNA 
OBRODA in Slovak 9 Apr 94 p 2) As Viliam Vaskovic, vice 
president of the National Property Fund, told NARODNA OBRODA, 
domestic and foreign experts have been voicing "reservations" 
about Slovenska Banka because the state was to have a majority 
stake in its capital stock. He pointed out that it was odd to 
try to set up another state bank at a time when the state was 
trying to transform state banks into commercial banks with a 
preponderance of private capital. (Bratislava NARODNA OBRODA in 
Slovak 11 Apr 94 p 13) 
  BUDGET DEFICIT REDUCED: According to Jozef Trojak, state 
secretary at the Ministry of Finance, the budget management of 
the Slovak Republic showed a deficit of Sk2 billion as of 8 
April, compared with a deficit of Sk5.9 billion at the end of 
the first quarter. While revenues from value-added tax and 
consumer tax are coming in as projected, the fulfillment of 
revenues from the corporate tax is "lagging behind somewhat." 
(Bratislava SLOVENSKY DENNIK in Slovak 9 Apr 94 p 4) 
  CONSUMER PRICE INCREASE: Consumer prices rose 0.7 percent in 
February 1994, compared with January 1994. Food prices went up 
0.4 percent, the prices of non-food items 0.6 percent, the cost 
of restaurant meals 0.7 percent, and the cost of services 1.7 
percent. Compared with December 1993, consumer prices went up 
2.1 percent and compared with February 1993 15.3 percent. The 
cost of living index went up 0.7 percent in February, compared 
with the preceding month. (Bratislava HOSPODARSKE NOVINY in 
Slovak 11 Apr 94 p 4) 
  PAPER, PULP MILL MODERNIZATION: The modernization of pulp 
production and the construction of a new paper plant is planned 
by the Bukoza a.s. at Vranov nad Toplou in cooperation with the 
U.S. World Alliance Merchant Finance Company (WAMF Co.) based in 
Cambridge, Massachusetts. A new paper machine with an annual 
capacity for 140,000 tonnes of so-called coated wood-free paper 
is to be supplied by the U.S. Beloid company. The Bukoza 
management has been negotiating with the International Forest 
Product Corporation from Boston, which guarantees the sale of 
the entire production volume on world markets for 20 years. A 
study drawn up by WAMF Co. in cooperation with the Hurter 
Consult Incorporated from Ottawa, Canada, demonstrates that the 
investment costs of $216 million (approximately seven billion 
Slovak korunas) would be recouped within three years; the U.S. 
EXIM Bank would invest about $80 million in the project. After 
three years, the annual profit should amount to approximately 
$30 million. The U.S. partners demand Slovak Government 
guarantees for the project and the transformation of Bukoza into 
a holding, an organizational configuration not provided for by 
existing Slovak legislation. (Bratislava SMENA in Slovak 8 Apr 
94 p 5; Prague HOSPODARSKE NOVINY in Czech 8 Apr 94 p 4) 
  MINE PRIVATIZATION PLANNED: The management and employees of 
the Dolina Mine in Velky Krtis see privatization as a possible 
way out of the unfavorable situation in Slovak brown coal 
mining. According to Martin Huba, the mine's director, theirs 
is the first project of this kind in Slovakia and within the 
framework of the former Czechoslovakia. The mine, which is the 
largest employer in the region, provides work for about 1,500 
people. Under the privatization plan, the management will own 
35 percent of the shares and workers and the technical and 
administrative staff 65 percent. The lowest stake in the Dolina 
a.s. has been set at 500 Slovak korunas [Sk] and the highest at 
Sk10,000. The constituent general meeting of shareholders is 
scheduled for 7 May. The mine's property, the book value of 
which is Sk550 million, is to be transferred to the new owner 
free of charge. The mine plans to extract 600,000 tonnes of 
coal this year, but contracts for only 450,000 tonnes have been 
concluded to date. To be able to compete with cheaper Czech 
coal, the Velky Krtis mine has lowered its price to Sk750 per 
tonne. (Bratislava SMENA in Slovak 11 Apr 94 p 5; Bratislava 
HOSPODARSKE NOVINY in Slovak 11 Apr 94 p 3) 
  PIESTANY FLIGHTS RESUMED: On 11 April the Czechoslovak 
Airlines (CSA) resumed regular international flights on the 
Prague- Piestany route after more than three years. The 
airline, which suspended flights on this route in February 1991 
for reasons of unprofitability, will operate five flights a 
week, with a stopover in Bratislava. Growing interest in the 
Piestany spa and the development of business activities in the 
region have forced the CSA management to reassess its original 
decision. The CSA will use the ATR-72 aircraft on the route to 
Piestany, which can seat 62 passengers. The price of the ticket 
will be around Sk3,000. (Bratislava REPUBLIKA in Slovak 12 Apr 
94 p 3) 
  KOSICE-MOSCOW FLIGHTS: For the first time in history, the 
Czechoslovak Airlines started to operate the Kosice- 
Moscow-Kosice route. Starting on 27 March, a TU-154 leaves 
Kosice for Moscow every Wednesday and returns to Kosice every 
Friday. Other novelties in the CSA's summer schedule include 
"partially resumed one-way Kosice-Bratislava flights," 
Kosice-Ostrava-Kosice flights, and new air links between Kosice 
and Prague. (Bratislava PRAVDA in Slovak 13 Apr 94 p 16) 
  TATRA THERMAL PROJECT CONSORTIUM: Seven building companies 
-- PS Nitra, BSTIMG Zilina, Vahostav Zilina, SIBAMAC Bratislava, 
Hutne Stavby Kosice, and Pozemstav Presov -- met with the 
designers and the investor of the Tatra-Thermal Poprad project 
at Stara Lesna and agreed to set up a consortium for the 
realization of the project. The construction of the 
recreational and preventive health care complex at Stara Lesna, 
which will utilize the abundant hot springs of the Poprad 
valley, will start this year and should be completed by 1996-97. 
It is projected to cost Sk3.5 billion. (Bratislava NARODNA 
OBRODA in Slovak 13 Apr 94 p 9) 
  NUMBER OF BUSINESSES: A total of 27,016 domestic and foreign 
firms and businesses were registered in the company register at 
the end of February 1994. The number of private entrepreneurs 
not entered in the company register dropped by 6,100 since 
January, to 277,131. (Bratislava HOSPODARSKE NOVINY in Slovak 13 
Apr 94 p 2) 
  RUBBER PACKINGS FOR AUTOS: ContiTech-Vegum, a Slovak-German 
joint venture at Dolne Vestenice, will produce this month the 
first rubber packing profiles for various models of Volkswagen 
and Mercedes Benz passenger cars. The assembly of the 
production lines, which were supplied by the German partner, is 
now "culminating." According to Pavol Janega, the company 
director, they will be put into operation gradually. The Slovak 
side has an approximately 60 percent majority in ContiTech- 
Vegum, which was established in mid-February. The joint venture 
is to produce Sk215 million worth of packings for Czech, German, 
and other foreign car manufacturers by the end of the year. The 
production volume is to double within two to three years. 
(Bratislava NARODNA OBRODA in Slovak 14 Apr 94 p 9) 
  WORKS SUSPENDS WAGES: The VSS, East Slovak Engineering 
Works, 
Kosice a.s. is facing a financial crisis and the management has 
been forced to resort to "unpopular measures." On Tuesday, 12 
April, the 1,588 VSS employees did not receive any wages and the 
management and the trade union organization started talks on 
reducing the working week to four days between the 17th and 22d 
week of the calender year. Although all three VSS production 
plants signed lucrative contracts for 1994, there are problems 
with payments. The VSS management complains that "even firms 
that we know are well off have stopped paying." (Bratislava 
SMENA in Slovak 14 Apr 94 p 5) 
  PRODUCTION, WAGES DECLINE: The monthly production volume of 
Slovak industry declined 2.3 percent in February 1994, compared 
with January 1994, but was 3.2 percent higher than in February 
1993, the Slovak Statistical Office reports. The construction 
volume was 6.4 percent lower than in January 1994 and 14.9 
percent lower than in February 1993. The average monthly wage 
in enterprises with more than 25 employees reached Sk5,409 in 
February, 2.6 percent less than in January. Real wages in 
industry fell 3.3 percent, in construction 4 percent, in 
retailing 1.5 percent, and in transportation 4.7 percent, 
compared with January. (Bratislava REPUBLIKA in Slovak 14 Apr 94 
p 2) 
  LICENSE DENIAL EXPLAINED: Asked why the Slovak National 
Bank, NBS, Banking Council failed, at its meeting on 8 April, to 
issue a license to Slovenska Banka, whose founder and sole 
shareholder is the National Property Fund, FNM, of the Slovak 
Republic, NBS Spokesman Juraj Matejovsky told the daily SME on 
13 April that, although the FNM's application was "formally in 
order," the Banking Council turned it down because of 
"nonfulfillment of conditions concerning the origin of capital 
stock and the economic purposefulness of the bank." (Bratislava 
SME in Slovak 14 Apr 94 p 2) Following the negative decision of 
the NBS Banking Council, the Slovenska Banka Board is exploring 
possibilities of raising its capital stock in keeping with 
legislative conditions in order to achieve the required majority 
stake of private capital. (Bratislava NARODNA OBRODA in Slovak 
15 Apr 94 p 2) 
  BRATISLAVA TRANSPORTATION CUTS: The depleted account of 
Dopravni Podnik, DP, the Bratislava municipal transport 
authority, will necessitate cuts in the scale of public 
transportation as of 18 April. Whereas in 1992 DP received from 
the state budget a subsidy of 786 million korunas, this year it 
will receive only Sk414 million. Moreover, the City of 
Bratislava owes the DP Sk100 million (70 million for 1993 and 30 
million for the first three months of 1994). As a result, the 
DP itself owes its suppliers "millions" and the Slovnaft 
refinery threatens to halt supplies of diesel fuel unless DP 
pays its outstanding bills. Right now, DP has diesel fuel in 
stock for only one day and is forced to start implementing 
"stage one of reducing mass public transport" in the capital. 
This first stage, which affects only buses, will reduce normal 
operating hours until 2300 (instead of 2400 or even later) and 
alter and reduce the lines operated at night. Some bus lines 
that run parallel to streetcar lines will also be abolished, 
shortened, or altered. If the situation does not improve, "stage 
two" will have to be implemented, which will affect streetcars 
and trolley buses as well. According to Deputy Mayor Klacansky, 
although the reduction of the state subsidy over the last two 
years represented 40 percent, the changes introduced on 18 April 
will represent a mere 13 percent reduction in performance. 
(Bratislava SLOVENSKY DENNIK in Slovak 14 Apr 94 p 6; Bratislava 
HOSPODARSKE NOVINY in Slovak 14 Apr p 3) 
  DIE WELT ON NUCLEAR PLANTS: Of the more than 40 nuclear 
power 
plants with Russian technology in eastern Europe, not one meets 
Western safety standards, including the west Slovak power plant 
in Mochovce, the Berlin paper DIE WELT wrote on 14 April. 
Shortly before completing the construction of the first two 
reactors, the newly established Slovak state ran out of money. 
The West came to the rescue: the German power concern 
Bayernwerk and the French Electricite de France offered to 
complete construction on the two reactors for 1.3 billion German 
marks. The Slovaks agreed to repay that loan with power 
supplies; one of those reactors will produce power exclusively 
for the western network for 12-15 years. The price of one 
kilowatt hour will be about six pfennigs, which is quite a 
bargain for the Bavarian concern, because one kilowatt hour 
produced in the thermal electricity plant in Bavaria costs at 
least three times as much, the newspaper wrote. What is more, 
Slovakia carries all the risks involved, since it must pay for 
everything from the liquidation of spent fuel to the shut- down 
of the power plant at the end of the operation period, according 
to the article. Slovak environmentalists have a dim view of 
Slovakia's future: "We will become a nuclear colony of the 
West," a Greenpeace representative in Bratislava told DIE WELT. 
(Prague CTK in English 1549 GMT 14 Apr 94) 
  KOSICE APARTMENTS: The price per square meter for city-owned 
apartments in Kosice was set by the City Council at a flat rate 
of 200 Slovak crowns, Deputy Mayor Peter Kucharsky told CTK. He 
explained that the housing developments on the edges of town are 
more modern, but they are not as well equipped. The 
infrastructure in those areas is also less developed than in the 
center, where the apartments are older but land is more 
expensive, he added. Discounts were approved for special cases. 
For instance, if more than half the tenants in an apartment 
building with at least four apartments wish to purchase their 
apartments, they are eligible for a 25-percent discount, and if 
all the tenants decide to buy, they have the right to a 
50-percent discount, Kucharsky said. Discounts will also be 
given for payment in cash. If a tenant does not apply to 
purchase an apartment within 11 years, the apartment will remain 
city property, he added. An information office to advise 
potential buyers has been opened at the City Hall. City 
administrators have already received several thousand 
applications to purchase city-owned apartments, Kucharsky said. 
(Prague CTK in English 1027 GMT 15 Apr 94) 
  OIL REFINERY RESULTS, PLANS: The Slovnaft a.s., Slovakia's 
only oil refinery and petrochemical combine, processed 4.2 
million tonnes of crude oil in 1993 and made a pre-tax profit of 
Sk1.611 billion (after Sk1.879 billion in 1992) on sales of Sk25 
billion, 43 percent of which were realized abroad. Besides, 
Slovnaft surrendered Sk11.7 billion to the state budget in 1993. 
The Slovnaft Board proposes to the 25 May 1994 annual meeting of 
shareholders that a dividend of one percent of the Slovnaft 
shares' nominal value (that is Sk10 per share) be paid to 
shareholders. The management also intends to propose to the 
annual meeting a 20 percent increase in the capital stock; 
proceeds from the sale of this new issue of shares should cover 
about 20 percent of the $500 million cost of a project for 
processing heavy residual fractions. This will be one of the 
largest investment projects in Slovakia, comparable in scale 
only to the Gabcikovo dam and the Mochovce nuclear power 
station. Slovnaft has reduced its workforce from 7,000 in 1992 
to 5,920 at present and plans to reduce employment to under 
5,000 by the end of this year. This will be made possible by 
modernization projects that reduce the labor-intensiveness of 
production. In 1994 Slovnaft intends to process the same 
quantity of crude oil as in 1993 but expects to increase its 
profit by Sk600 million thanks to manpower savings and better 
utilization of crude oil. Addressing a news conference in 
Bratislava on 14 April, Slovnaft Director General Slavomir 
Hatina announced that talks with the Austrian OeMV petrochemical 
combine on OeMV's capital stake in Slovnaft have been suspended 
because "the two companies do not intend to back away from their 
positions on several disputed issues." Slovnaft therefore 
intends to resume negotiations with six other prospective 
foreign partners. (Bratislava SMENA in Slovak 15 Apr 94 p 1; 
Bratislava REPUBLIKA in Slovak 15 Apr 94 p 2; Bratislava PRAVDA 
in Slovak 15 Apr 94 p 2; Bratislava NARODNA OBRODA in Slovak 15 
Apr 94 p 2) 
  COMPANIES' PROFITS, LOSSES: According to Finance Minister 
Rudolf Filkus, Slovak companies that operated at a loss in 1993 
generated an aggregate loss of 42 billion Slovak korunas (Sk). 
In this way, they reduced the overall profit of Slovak economic 
organizations for that year from Sk68 billion to Sk26 billion. 
(Bratislava NARODNA OBRODA in Slovak 16 Apr 94 p 1) 
  DIGITAL TELEPHONE NETWORK: Slovak Telecommunications, in 
cooperation with the Canadian Northern Telecom company, 
completed the first stage of the national digital transmission 
network and put it into operation on 15 April. The network is 
based on the STM-1 and STM-4 "add-drop ring" technology; STM-1 
permits the concurrent transmission of 2,000 voice connections 
through optical cables, while the capacity of STM-4 is four 
times bigger. The technology is part of the SDH (Synchronous 
Digital Hierarchy) system, which Northern Telecom developed in 
1989 and which is among the most sophisticated in the world. 
According to Wolfgang Steiert, Northern Telecom Vice President 
for Central and Eastern Europe, the rapid implementation of the 
first stage of the network was made possible by the abilities of 
Slovak engineers, who have mastered the new technology in record 
time. The project was financed partly by a Northern Telecom 
credit, the guarantee for which had been assumed by the British 
Government, after the then Czechoslovak Federal Government 
refused to provide a credit guarantee. (Bratislava NARODNA 
OBRODA in Slovak 16 Apr 94 p 2; Bratislava SME in Slovak 16 Apr 
94 p 10; Bratislava HOSPODARSKE NOVINY in Slovak 18 Apr 94 p 2) 
  CONTINUOUS CASTING PROJECT: The most important investment 
project of the East Slovak Iron Works (VSZ) Kosice in 1994 is an 
extensive modernization and reconstruction of its continuous 
casting facility Number One. The work on the project, which 
will cost Sk2.493 billion, starts on 18 April and will last 
about three months. Some 1,700 people will be involved in the 
realization of the project, which pursues three objectives -- 
raising quality, cutting costs, and improving the environment in 
the Kosice conurbation. The East Slovak Iron Works plan to 
increase the proportion of steel produced by the continuous 
casting method from two-thirds at present to 100 percent by the 
end of the year. The basic equipment for the modernization 
project will be supplied by the VOEST Alpine Industrieanlagenbau 
from Linz, Austria. Following its reconstruction, the new 
facility should produce about 2 million tonnes of steel 
annually. (Bratislava SMENA in Slovak 16 Apr 94 p 7; Bratislava 
HOSPODARSKE NOVINY in Slovak 18 Apr 94 p 3) 
  NEW BRATISLAVA CASINO: The Casinos Slovakia a.s., partners 
in which are the state-run SATUR (Slovak Agency for Tourism) and 
the Casinos Austria International company, opened a new casino 
in the Reduta Hall, the seat of Slovak Philharmonics, in 
Bratislava on 16 April. The Casino-Cafe Reduta is actually an 
exclusive cafe with gaming tables; it is open daily from 1300. 
The minimum stake is Sk10 or 20 Austrian schillings. The 
premises of the Casino-Cafe, which used to house the Bratislava 
office of Czechoslovak Airlines, were reconstructed at a cost of 
more than 35 million Austrian schillings. (Bratislava PRAVDA in 
Slovak 18 Apr 94 p 3; Bratislava NARODNA OBRODA in Slovak 18 Apr 
94 p 12) 
  AUTO PLANT LAYOFFS: Some 260 workers of the Automobilova 
Vyroba Cadca (Automobile Production Cadca, AVC) a.s. were given 
two-months' notice at the end of March and another approximately 
100 workers are expected to be given notice in the coming weeks. 
The workforce of this once second largest company in the Kysuce 
region, which used to employ 2,800 people, will thus be reduced 
to 1,100 by mid-1994. According to AVC Director General Jiri 
Hadenec, three reasons made the management resort to lay-offs. 
The first reason is another production cut in the Czech Tatra 
Koprivnice truck factory, which buys about 60 percent of AVC's 
production volume. Tatra Koprivnice planned to assemble 4,500 
trucks this year but it is now apparent that the actual number 
will not exceed 3,800. The second reason is that cooperation 
with Tatra Koprivnice will be scaled down as of 1996, when Tatra 
plans to launch a new model. Tatra intends to produce some 
components for this new model itself or in cooperation with 
manufacturers in the Czech Republic. The third reason is the 
failure of the Turkish firm Karsan, for which AVC produces 
gearboxes under license, to accept the originally contracted 
number of gearboxes. Supplies for Karsan accounted for 30 
percent of AVC's production volume in 1993. Hadenec hopes that, 
after acquiring new production orders, AVC will rehire some of 
the workers it is now forced to lay off. At 23 percent, the 
rate of unemployment in Cadca district is one of the highest in 
the country. [Bratislava PRAVDA in Slovak 18 Apr 94 p 3) 
  MEZ ENGINES CERTIFIED: After three years of efforts by its 
management, the MEZ Michalovce company, which manufactures 
single-phase asynchronous two-speed engines for washing 
machines, has been awarded a certificate of the international 
auditing firm SGS that the quality control system for its 
engines complies with the ISO 9001 standard. According to MEZ 
Director General Michal Boka, the certificate should help 
resolve the existential problems of the company, which was "at 
the brink of collapse" only a year ago, and strengthen its 
position in price negotiations. MEZ has stopped laying off 
workers and has even started hiring new ones. The quality of 
MEZ engines has reached such a standard that only 256 of 1 
million units are defective, compared with a West European 
average of 500. MEZ plans to produce 775,000 engines for 
washing machines this year, 95 percent of which will be 
exported. (Bratislava HOSPODARSKE NOVINY in Slovak 18 Apr 94 p 3) 
  CAR CABLING PRODUCTION: The Siemens Automotive Michalovce 
Ltd., one of three companies belonging to the MEZ Michalovce 
a.s., has started producing cabling for Ford Fiesta cars, in 
cooperation with the German Siemens AG. Within two months, it 
will gradually increase production to 100 and, subsequently, to 
200 sets per shift. Eventually, it will become the sole producer 
of cabling for the new Ford Fiesta model. The company, which 
currently employs 300 people, plans to hire another 450 workers 
by the end of the year. The annual production volume is to 
reach Sk1.1 billion. According to MEZ Director General Michal 
Boka, the value of a single set of cabling, including 
electronics and accessory equipment, exceeds that of the entire 
Fiesta car body. (Bratislava NARODNA OBRODA in Slovak 21 Apr 94 
p 9) 
  DECLINE IN TRADE DEFICIT: Slovakia has further reduced the 
deficit on the clearing account with the Czech Republic. 
According to Slovak National Bank data, the Slovak deficit 
amounted to 42 million European Currency Units (ECU) on 15 
April, down from 59.5 million ECU on 1 April. Of the 42 million 
ECU, 34 million were on the so-called new account and 8 million 
on the old account, which registers payments for transactions 
realized prior to the currency split of 8 February 1993. 
(Bratislava HOSPODARSKE NOVINY in Slovak 19 Apr 94 p 2) By 19 
April, the Slovak deficit on the clearing account dropped to 
35.944 million ECU (Sk1.406 billion), of which 27.119 million 
ECU were on the new account and 8.824 million on the old 
account. (Bratislava REPUBLIKA in Slovak 20 Apr 94 p 1) 
  BRATISLAVA CABLE TV: The Systemova Kablova Televizia (System 
Cable Television; SKT) Ltd., a subsidiary of the Siemens 
concern, has invested Sk400 million in the Bratislava cable 
television network to date and plans to invest another 
approximately Sk400 million by the end of this year. This 
should help increase the number of subscriber households from 
approximately 53,000 at present to 90,000-100,000 by the end of 
the year. SKT employs 31 people and has generated another 450 
jobs in subcontractor firms. It charges subscribers between Sk75 
and Sk90 per month, which is about 20 percent of the price 
charged in neighboring Vienna. The "package" offered by SKT 
comprises 34 television and 16 radio programs from 14 states in 
10 languages. (Bratislava HOSPODARSKE NOVINY in Slovak 22 Apr 94 
p 3) 
  MINISTER ON FOOD IMPORT TAX: The tax on Slovak food imports 
averages 12 percent, Slovak Agriculture Minister Pavol Koncos 
said on Slovak Radio on 18 April. Under the GATT agreement, 
food taxes will gradually be reduced by 40 percent on average. 
Owing to Slovakia's taxes being low, the country's farmers do 
not have to fear their reduction, Koncos said, adding that 
Slovakia may profit to a certain extent from the GATT members' 
promise to lower export tariffs and state subsidies. 
"Effectively, there is nothing to lower in Slovakia," Koncos 
said, adding that signing GATT two years ago would have given 
exports a boost but today apart from cheese and several other 
commodities, there was nothing Slovakia might export. Koncos 
also said that a preparatory committee is being formed to work 
out a detailed structure and status for the World Trade 
Organization (WTO). (Prague CTK in English 1212 GMT 18 Apr 94) 
  GATT SIGNING: According to Economy Minister Peter Magvasi, 
who headed the Slovak delegation to the signing of the Uruguay 
Round of GATT at Marrakesh, Morocco, Slovakia signed the GATT 
document "with the exception of the parts on milk and beef 
cattle, because these commodities are yet to be the subject of 
negotiations at the Slovak Ministry of Agriculture." (Bratislava 
REPUBLIKA in Slovak 19 Apr 94 p 2) 
  GAS PROFITS HIGHER: The Nafta Gbely a.s., which produces 4.5 
percent of Slovakia's natural gas consumption and 1 percent of 
its crude oil consumption, further strengthened its positions on 
the domestic and foreign markets in 1993, the second year of its 
existence. One of the company's most important lines of 
business is the storage of imported natural gas in underground 
reservoirs. Nafta Gbely has a monopoly on this activity in 
Slovakia and provides its services to Czech and German gas 
distributors as well. The company invested Sk784 million in 
1993, mostly in the construction of an underground gas reservoir 
at Lab and in the gas collection center at Senne, and made a 
profit of Sk830,588 million, 49.2 percent more than the year 
before. The business plan for 1994 foresees another 10 percent 
rise in profits. The majority stake in Nafta Gbely, which was 
one of the most sought-after Slovak companies in the first wave 
of coupon privatization, is held by the National Property Fund 
(52.2 percent), followed by investment funds (39.5 percent), and 
individual investors (8.3 percent). Nafta Gbely employs 2,727 
people. It is one of nine companies registered on the listed 
market of the Bratislava Securities Exchange. (Bratislava 
HOSPODARSKE NOVINY in Slovak 19 Apr 94 p 3; Bratislava PRAVDA in 
Slovak 21 Apr 94 p 3) 
  TRADE WITH CR DECLINES: Czech (CR) organizations with 25 or 
more employees delivered 72.148 billion Czech korunas' (Kc) 
worth of goods to Slovakia in 1993, which was 30 percent less 
than in 1992 and 35.6 percent less than in 1991, the Czech 
Statistical Office announced. Czech imports from Slovakia 
totalled Kc70.431 billion in 1993, 17 percent less than in 1992 
and 28.6 percent less than in 1991. The CR's trade surplus 
declined from Kc18.298 billion in 1992 to Kc1.717 in 1993. 
(Bratislava SME in Slovak 19 Apr 94 p 14) 
  RAILROAD FREIGHT VOLUME HALVED: According to Andrej Egyed, 
state secretary at the Ministry of Transportation, 
Communications, and Public Works, only 64.8 million metric tons 
of freight were carried by railroad in Slovakia in 1993, 
compared with 127.7 million metric tons in 1989. This 
represents a drop of almost 50 percent. (Bratislava PRAVDA in 
Slovak 20 Apr 94 p 5) 
  WAGE DEVELOPMENT: Average monthly wages amounted to Sk5,264 
in Slovakia in 1993, which was 17.5 percent more than in 1992. 
Average wages in private companies (Sk5,414) exceeded average 
wages in state organizations (Sk5,290). The lowest average 
wages were recorded in cooperatives (Sk4,379) and the highest in 
international and foreign-owned organizations (Sk8,174). In 
regional terms, the highest average wages were in Bratislava 
(Sk6,238), followed by East Slovakia (Sk5,023), Central Slovakia 
(Sk4,957), and West Slovakia (Sk4,910). Svidnik (Sk4,136) was 
the district with the lowest average wages in Slovakia in 1993. 
Branches with the highest average earnings were banking 
(Sk10,609) and the insurance business (Sk9,404); those with the 
lowest earnings were the textile industry (Sk3,931) and social 
services (Sk4,113). (Bratislava HOSPODARSKE NOVINY in Slovak 21 
Apr 94 p 8) 
  PRODUCTION FOR ISRAEL, GERMANY: Of the approximately 1,000 
freight cars to be manufactured by the Vagonka Poprad state 
enterprise this year, 82 will be exported to Israel. These 
container cars will be assembled in Israel under the supervision 
of a group of experts from Poprad. A few days ago, the Poprad 
management signed a contract with a German partner for the 
delivery of approximately 3,000 undercarriages in 1994 and 1995. 
According to Vagonka Director Frantisek Kralik, the company 
seeks privatization by means of employee stock ownership. 
(Bratislava NARODNA OBRODA in Slovak 21 Apr 94 p 9) 
  GOLD, SILVER MINING: According to Felix Sekula, director of 
the Kosice-based Geotechnology Institute of the Slovak Academy 
of Sciences, Slovakia could cover a substantial part of its 
consumption of precious metals (which amounted to 1,600 kg of 
gold and 40,000 kg of silver in 1991) from its own extraction. 
Findings about the distribution of precious metals in 
geological formations show the presence of some 15,000 kg of 
gold and 150,000 kg of silver in "verified deposits," Sekula 
told the Bratislava daily PRAVDA, adding that "geologists' 
prognoses about gold and silver deposits in Slovakia are even 10 
times higher." In Sekula's opinion, using existing methods of 
extraction, it should be possible to increase annual gold 
production from the present 500 to 725 kg and silver production 
from 12,400 to 64,100 kg. (Bratislava PRAVDA in Slovak 23 Apr 94 
p 5) 
  FARM SUBSIDY CUT PROTEST: In a letter addressed to Prime 
Minister Jozef Moravcik, the Slovak Agricultural and Food 
Chamber (SPPK) protested against alleged plans to reduce 
agricultural subsidies by another Sk400 million this year. The 
SPPK pointed out that agricultural subsidies dropped from 
approximately Sk18 billion in 1989 to Sk7 billion this year and 
are now deep below the level customary in the countries of the 
European Union and elsewhere in the world. According to the 
SPPK, while the prices of farm products went up only 28 percent 
between 1989 and the end of 1993, the prices of agricultural 
machinery, fertilizers, and herbicides and pesticides more than 
doubled in the same period. The SPPK warned that, should 
subsidies be cut further, the absolute majority of agricultural 
enterprises would be unable to halt the production decline and 
secure food supplies, "which could have unforeseeable 
consequences for our state." (Bratislava REPUBLIKA in Slovak 23 
Apr 94 p 2; Bratislava NARODNA OBRODA in Slovak 23 Apr p 2) 
  COST OF FRY EMBARGO: Juraj Pavelek, director general of the 
Slovenska Plavba Dunajska (Slovak Danube Shipping; SPD) company, 
told the Bratislava daily SME that, since March 1993, the SPD 
has incurred a loss of Sk652 million as a result of the embargo 
imposed on former Yugoslavia. (Bratislava SME in Slovak 23 Apr 
94 p 2) 
  WASHING MACHINE SUCCESS: Only 18 months after the launch of 
their production, washing machines manufactured by the 
U.S.-Slovak Whirlpool Tatramat joint venture in Poprad, and 
marketed under the Philips Whirlpool label, hold the first place 
on both the Czech and Slovak markets. The Poprad plant will 
manufacture about 150,000 washing machines this year, almost 70 
percent of which will be exported to the Czech Republic, 
Hungary, Poland, and Argentina. Whirlpool Tatramat must still 
import some components for its washing machines, but it intends 
to limit these imports and give a chance to domestic 
manufacturers to supply not only the Poprad plant but also 
another 11 Whirlpool plants in Europe. (Bratislava HOSPODARSKE 
NOVINY in Slovak 25 Apr 94 p 2) 

