BFN 

  [Text] Minister of Information Jawad al-'Anani said his 
majesty the king's summit with U.S. President Bill Clinton in 
Washington on Wednesday [22 June] will focus on the Middle East 
process and its future. The king begins talks with U.S. 
officials in Washington tomorrow ahead of his summit with the 
American President. 
  Murid Hammad in Washington asked Jordan's Ambassador Dr. 
Fayiz al-Tarawinah about the king's talks: 
  [Begin recording] [Al-Tarawinah] It is a continuation of the 
bilateral considerations, and also of course to exchange views 
and consultations on the regional developments, and in 
particular the peace process, and basically the recent 
developments in the Jordanian track, and also the 
Palestinian-Israeli track, and the accord that was signed 
therein. And of course we have, as you know, announced the 
formation of the joint political and economic bilateral 
commission. And hopefully, that there will be a first meeting 
of this commission, will be launched this week. 
  [Hammad] What is the nature of the commission? What kind of 
topics and issues would it tackle? 
  [Al-Tarawinah] It's purely bilateral, and political and 
economic considerations. And it is purely a bilateral 
commission. And the objective basically is to enhance the 
bilateral relations that are improved tremendously as compared 
to what three years ago. Of course, there will be always a 
linkage with the developments in our region, but the American 
participation in the peace process as a cosponsor in the 
bilaterals, the multilaterals...they are full participants in 
the trilateral economic committee that we had, but this is a 
purely bilateral commission that takes into consideration the 
political and economic matters with the objective of improving 
and enhancing these relations. [end recording] 

