Language: <F P=105> Romanian </F>
Article Type:CSO 

  [Text] At an altitude of 1,400 meters on the Semenic 
mountain plateau, the first pilot wind power station is 
beginning to take shape not far from the well-known resort of 
the same name. The project's history in this area which, 
according to experts, is most favorable for wind energy 
exploitation, began three years ago with the operation of the 
first experimental 300-kw wind turbine, the result of joint 
efforts of the Timisoara Technical University faculty staff, the 
researchers and designers of the Specializing Institute in 
Timisoara, and the machine builders in Bocsa. Recently, a second 
such power unit has just passed into the final installation 
phase, to be followed by two more units which are presently 
being built and tested in the Bocsa plant and the Timisoara 
workshops respectively. These four experimental 300 kw 
"EOLTIM"-type turbines will constitute the first pilote wind 
power station in our country. The next phase in wind energy 
exploitation, considered presently to be the cheapest form in 
the world, is the installation of 100 turbines of this type, and 
in the more distant future--according to experts participating 
recently in an international symposium on the subject--the 
constructing of a 900-kw power station: a true record in the 
field. 

