BFN 

<F P=106> [Report by AL-THAWRAH correspondent 'Ali al-Na'a'as] </F>
  [Text] A study compiled by UNICEF says that 12 percent of 
Iraqi children under five years of age suffer from acute 
malnutrition due to the economic blockade imposed on our country. 
  The study added that the death rate among children has also 
increased so that deaths among breast-feeding children are 
estimated at 92 out of every 1,000 births, and deaths among 
children below the age of five are estimated at 128 out of every 
1,000 live births. 
  Regarding health and other environmental effects of the 
economic blockade on our Iraqi people, the study has noted that 
several diseases -- such as measles, polio, diphtheria, and 
dysentery -- which could have been prevented by vaccination, 
have reappeared in Iraq due to the embargo on medicines. The 
Ministry of Health has organized a joint campaign with UNICEF in 
order to control these diseases. 
  Regarding water supply and sewage networks, the study noted 
that these networks have been seriously affected by the economic 
embargo, which has caused a shortage of spare parts and support 
equipment. This has led to a scarcity of drinking water both in 
the cities and in rural areas. 
  The blockade has also had a great effect on elementary 
education. The UNICEF report said that the great shortage in 
school's requisites and equipment has lowered the standard of 
education and increased the number of failures, especially among 
girls. 

