BFN 

<F P=106> [By reporters Ning Shiqun (1337 0013 5028) and Duo Qiong </F>
(1122 4522)] 
  [Text] Lhasa, 24 May (XINHUA) -- Through 15 years of 
reform and opening up, a trend of accelerated development has 
emerged on the Tibetan highland, the roof of the world. As of 
the end of 1993, the total annual output value of goods and 
services reached 3.65 billion yuan, a growth of over 120 percent 
over that of 1980. 
  In the past 15 years, Tibet Autonomous Region has adopted a 
long-term and unchanged policy of allowing households 
self-operation rights in using land as well as raising and 
owning livestock. This has greatly aroused the production 
enthusiasm of peasants and herdsmen, who form over 80 percent of 
the Tibetan population. The region has reaped bumper harvest in 
agricultural production for six consecutive years. Last year, 
the total agricultural output value topped 2.32 billion yuan, a 
growth of 66 percent over the total of 15 years' ago; and total 
grain production reached 620,000 tonnes, a growth of 30.69 
percent. With per capita income reaching 521 yuan, living 
conditions for the majority of peasants and herdsmen have 
improved. The total output value of village and town 
enterprises and income from various economic sectors have grown 
by fairly large margins, reaching 100 million yuan and 240 
million yuan respectively. 
  The late start and slow development of Tibet's 
infrastructure 
construction in industries, transportation, energy resources, 
and communications has consistently hampered the speed of 
economic development. Through 15 years' of hard work, Tibet's 
total industrial output value has reached 535 million yuan, a 
growth of 78.65 percent over that of 1980. The production 
volume of principal products has grown by a large margin, and 
the rate of qualified and excellent products has increased 
somewhat. The production-sales ratio has reached 94.85 percent. 
Smooth progress has been made in a large group of key 
infrastructures construction projects in energy resources, 
transportation, and communications. In 1993 alone, Tibet 
invested 1.59 billion yuan in fixed assets. The region expanded 
the main runways of Gonggar and Bangda airports; built the 
Zhamu-Medog road; began work on the Yanghu and Calung power 
plants; and conducted geothermal exploration in northern 
Yangbajing, as well as embarked on key infrastructures 
construction projects that included 61 earth satellite 
communications stations, 35 county-built earth satellite 
communications stations, and computerized telephone 
installations. These projects laid a solid foundation for 
Tibet's rapid economic development. 
  With accelerated pace and increased intensity of Tibet's 
opening up to the outside world, the rapid development of 
Tibet's foreign trade and tourist industry has injected new 
vitality into its entire economy. Last year, the import-export 
volume of Tibet's foreign trade reached 103 million yuan, a 
524-percent increase over that of 1980. The tourist industry 
has developed from nothing to become Tibet's pillar industry. 
The region received 23,000 tourists from Hong Kong, Macao, 
Taiwan, and foreign countries, an over 20-fold growth over that 
of 1980. Total operations income reached 106 million yuan, with 
foreign exchange earnings amounting to $9 million. Meanwhile, 
the momentum in attracting local and foreign investment 
continued well. In 1993 alone, the region attracted local and 
foreign investments in 41 projects, with agreements on using 
67.11 million yuan and $9.63 million. In addition, the region 
established 129 independent or joint-funded enterprises with 
other provinces and regions along the coastal regions. 
  Meanwhile, Tibet has quickened the pace of market 
construction and gradually improved market facilities. Last 
year, the region completed 23 new or remodeled country markets, 
and the region's total retail sales amounted to 1.9 billion 
yuan, a growth of 12.8 percent over that of 1992. As a result, 
markets thrived and purchases and sales were brisk in local 
townships and villages. 

