BFN 

<F P=106> [By Debbie Kuo] </F>
  [Text] Taipei, June 20 (CNA) -- The Investigation Bureau 
announced Monday [20 June] that an international 
drug-trafficking ring involving both Japanese and Taiwanese was 
cracked Sunday, with more than 150 kilograms of amphetamines 
being seized. 
  Five Japanese, including an underground gang member and four 
fishing boat crewmembers, were arrested Sunday while trying to 
smuggle the 151 kilograms of high-grade amphetamines through 
Kagoshima port in Kyushu, Japan. Simultaneously, four 
Taiwanese, including two traffickers and two dealers, were 
apprehended in Taiwan, Wang Hua-fu, a spokesman for the bureau's 
Taipei headquarters, said. 
  Wang said bureau officials had teamed with Japanese police 
for three months in trying to crack the drug ring, which bought 
amphetamines in Mainland China and then smuggled the shipments 
to Japan via Taiwanese and Japanese fishing boats. According to 
Wang, the ring, which was supported by Japanese organized crime 
syndicates, had smuggled several metric tons of amphetamines 
from Mainland China to Japan over the last eight years. 
Amphetamines have become a popular drug among the middle and 
lower classes in Japan, and prices for it have been surpassing 
that of heroin. The amphetamines seized Sunday have a street 
value of US$55.55 million [words indistinct]. 
  This was the biggest anti-drug-smuggling operation mounted 
by 
Taiwan since a national anti-drug conference was held here 
earlier this month. 

