BFN 

  [Text] Tallinn, Apr 20, BNS -- Estonia as of April 1 had 
registered 19,521 persons as unemployed. The figure makes up 
2.22 percent of the country's population in the working age 
groups. 
  This is the highest recorded unemployment rate in Estonia 
since last May, when the figure rose to 2.6 percent. 
  The Estonian Labor Market Department in its comments to the 
report says the tendency toward higher jobless rates is due to 
the general restructuring under way in the economy, as well as 
the privatization of state companies. Another factor 
contributing to higher rates in Estonia is the establishment of 
local employment record offices in rural areas, which makes it 
easier for residents in more distant areas to come to register. 
  The highest regional unemployment rate for April 1 was 7.33, 
also up from 6.46 percent of March 1, reported in the 
northeastern town of Narva, where 3,545 had been registered as 
out of job. Next on the list came the southeastern Vorumaa 
region with 6.47 percent, or 1,500 jobless, and its neighboring 
Polva region with 6.31 percent, or 1,171 jobless. Unemployment 
rates were also above five percent in the northeastern 
Ida-Virumaa region with the town of Kohtla- Jarve, as well as on 
the western island of Hiiumaa. 
  The country's capital, Tallinn, still manages to keep 
jobless 
rates low, reporting a meager 0.127-percent unemployment, or 754 
residents officially without a job. 
  Estonia as of March 1 had registered 18,273 jobless, which 
corresponds to a national unemployment rate of 2.08 percent. 

