Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] Seoul, Feb. 2 (YONHAP) -- Domestic consumption of 
foreign cigarettes soared last year due to a strengthening of 
sales promotion activities by foreign cigarette makers and 
importers here, the Finance Ministry said Wednesday. 
  Foreign cigarettes passing through the customs house last 
year reached 357,888,000 packs worth 283,288 million won (about 
350.6 million U.S. dollars). The volume registered a 34.2 
percent increase from the year before, while turnover rose 32.3 
percent. Foreign cigarettes accounted for 6.7 percent of the 
total volume of cigarettes sold in South Korea in 1993, up 1.5 
percent from 1992, while the proportion in turnover rose to 9.1 
percent, up 1.7 percentage points. 
  In contrast, the increase in sales of domestically made 
cigarettes both at home and abroad was a mere 2.9 percent in 
volume and 6.1 percent in turnover from 1992. 
  On the home front, the Japanese brand "Mild Seven Lights" 
(800 won or about one dollar per pack) and America's "Virginia 
Slims" (about 1.23 dollars) topped the list of foreign 
cigarettes, accounting for 27.3 percent and 23.4 percent, 
respectively, of the foreign cigarette market in volume. 
  "Marlboro Lights" (one dollar) took a 13.1 percent share of 
the market, followed by "Marlboro" (one dollar) with 5.8 
percent, "Finesse" (1.23 dollars) with 4.8 percent, "Vantage 
Lights" (1.23 dollars) with 3.3 percent and "Yves Saint Laurent" 
(1.23 dollars) with 2.0 percent. 

