Language: <F P=105> Arabic </F>
Article Type:BFN 

<F P=106> [Report by Hamid al-Alfi from al-'Arish] </F>
  [Text] As part of their campaign to seize weapons and 
explosives and arrest terrorists, the north Sinai intelligence 
agencies have seized 20 weapons -- including a mortar gun, an 
antiaircraft gun, 26 kg of dynamite, 25 hand grenades, and 35 
dynamite sticks -- along with their owners. The search 
campaign, which was conducted on instructions from Interior 
Minister Hasan al- Alfi, is intended to confront all terrorists 
and criminals. The campaign was supervised by Major General 
Sami Katat, assistant to the interior minister for north Sinai 
security, and led by Brigadier General Muhammad Abu-Shu'ayshi', 
director of the Intelligence Department. Colonels Hilmi 
al-Shanhabi, Budayr al-Qasir, and Ahmad Antus took part in the 
campaign. 
  In addition to the weapons, the campaign uncovered nine 
cases 
of robberies, 130 cases of car smuggling, three cases of drug 
trafficking and cultivating, eight cases of financial fraud, and 
five cases of forgery of foreign currencies. In addition, 182 
suspects were arrested and referred to the State Security 
Intelligence Department. The campaign uncovered 42 cases of 
alcohol smuggling and prostitution, 1,106 cases of evasion of 
verdicts, 25 cases of illegal supplies, 1,193 traffic tickets, 
and 89 other cases. The defendants have been referred to the 
Public Prosecution Office, which has started interrogations. 

