Language: <F P=105> Ukrainian </F>
Article Type:BFN 

<F P=106> [Unattributed report: "Kiev and Tallinn Are Ready To </F>
Implement Specific Programs"] 
  [Text] Yesterday [16 March], the Estonian Republic's 
President L. Meri arrived in our country on an official visit. 
A ceremony was held on the occasion. The presidents of Ukraine 
and Estonia inspected the guard of honor. Following that, L. 
Kravchuk and L. Meri held negotiations tete-a-tete. As has 
become known from well-informed sources, the sides discussed a 
series of questions that dealt with an intensification of 
bilateral cooperation and with some international problems. 
During the first half of the day, joint Ukrainian-Estonian 
documents were also signed; in particular, agreements on 
cooperation in the spheres of education, science, and culture, 
as well as on procedures for travel by citizens holding 
diplomatic passports. The sides signed a protocol on 
consultations between external political departments of both 
countries. 
  President of the Estonian Republic L. Meri was received by 
chairman of Ukraine's Supreme Council I. Plyushch, who briefed 
the high guest on the present political and economic situation 
in our state and spoke in favor of expanding bilateral 
parliamentary ties. 
  On the same day, L. Meri met with our state's acting prime 
minister Yu. Zvyahilskyy. The sides discussed problems in the 
development of Ukrainian-Estonian economic cooperation and 
possibilities of removing obstacles on the road toward 
intensifying contacts between entrepreneurs of both countries. 
  In the second half of the day, the Estonian president laid a 
wreath at the Grave of the Unknown Soldier and visited the Kiev 
Cave Monastery. In the evening, the Ukrainian president gave a 
dinner in honor of the president of the Estonian Republic. 

