BFN 

  [Text] Ndjamena, 30 May (AFP) -- Libya on Monday [30 May] 
officially restored the Aozou Strip, a tract of desert territory 
believed to be rich in minerals, to Chad after a 22-year 
occupation, Chadian radio reported. The handover took place as 
planned at Aozou, a post in the territory of 114,000 square 
kilometres (45,600 square miles) which had led to war between 
the two nations in the past, the radio said. But it gave no 
details, citing an almost total lack of communications with the 
remote site. 
  The lowering of the Libyan flag in the Aozou Strip and the 
transfer to Chad follows a February 3 ruling by the 
International Court of Justice in the Hague, upholding 
Ndjamena's claim to the area. Guests invited to the ceremony by 
the Chadian Government, notably French troops and 
representatives of relief agencies, were flown to Bardai, about 
100 kilometres (60 miles) from Aozou, aboard French military 
planes, diplomatic sources in Ndjamena said. 
  France deployed a military air and ground force in Chad in 
1986, known as Operation Epervier (Sparrowhawk), to put an end 
to Libyan military offensives. The force is currently some 800 
strong. The programme for Monday's ceremony stated that it 
would be attended by Libyan Justice Minister Muhammad al-Hijazi, 
Chadian Interior Minister Abderamane Izzo and an official of the 
UN observer team that monitored Libya's withdrawal. 

