BFN 

    [Editorial Report] Vilnius Radio Vilnius Network in 
Lithuanian at 0725 GMT on 8 June broadcasts a report on 
Lithuanian Prime Minister Adolfas Slezevicius' meeting with his 
Latvian counterpart, Valdis Burkavs, in Jurmala, Latvia, 
yesterday. The unidentified correspondent states that the main 
objective of the meeting was to discuss a draft agreement on the 
maritime border and the maritime economic border between Latvia 
and Lithuania. 
  The correspondent goes on to say that the Lithuanian prime 
minister, speaking on Lithuanian radio, said: "We are close to a 
possible agreement. However, I must say that again yesterday we 
failed to adopt the solutions. A 2.5 km economic maritime zone 
with Sweden still remains in dispute. We think that next Monday 
[13 June] we will be able to discuss this issue again." 
  The correspondent motes that the prime minister also said 
that an agreement on the state maritime border will be prepared 
and signed in Tallinn next Monday. Speaking about cooperation 
between the Lithuanian and Latvian customs services, the 
correspondent says, the prime minister said that "the situation 
on the Lithuanian-Latvian border causes concern to everybody. 
The problem can be solved if both sides take a benevolent stand 
on the matter." However, the correspondent adds, he did not 
specify what exactly the problem is that is causing concern. 
  The report ends with the correspondent noting that when the 
prime minister presented his view on the interpolation to his 
government, the prime minister said that "this is an important 
political event in the political life of our country. We regard 
this fact as a constitutional norm, as a normal process," adding 
that the government is prepared to stand its ground and to give 
answers to all the issues raised in parliament next week when 
the vote of no confidence in the government will be discussed. 

