BFN 

<F P=106> [By ITAR-TASS correspondents Viktor Demidenko and Mikhail </F>
Melnik] 
  [Text] Kiev May 11 TASS -- The newly elected members of the 
Supreme Soviet (parliament) of Ukraine have set about working in 
a business-like manner. 
  Ivan Yemets, chairman of the Central Electoral Commission, 
opened the inaugural session on Wednesday. 
  According to Yemets, a total of 338 deputies were elected to 
the parliament; 168 of them represent various political parties, 
and communists make up a fourth of these. 
  The party of Narodnyy Rukh has six percent of the seats, 
while the Peasants' Party holds five and the Socialist Party -- 
four percent. 
  Twelve women were elected to parliament. 
  The legislators represent various nationalities: Ukrainians 
account for 75 percent of the total number, Russians -- for 20 
percent. 
  At the suggestion of a working group which prepared the 
inaugural session, the legislators elected an interim presidium, 
which brought together Vasiliy Dudinets, former first deputy 
parliament speaker; Aleksandr Moroz, chairman of the Socialist 
Party; Petr Simonenko, communist leader; Vitaliy Masol, former 
Ukrainian prime minister; and Vyacheslav Chernovil, leader of 
the Narodnyy Rukh. 
  Participants in the session are tackling organizational 
issues. 
  It was announced that Ukrainian President Leonid Kravchuk 
would deliver a report "On Political and Social and Economic 
Situation in the Country" before the deputies at an early date. 
  Progress reports prepared by the government and chairman of 
the governing board of the National Bank will also be heard. 
  President Kravchuk participates in the parliament session. 

