BFN 

  [Text] Buenos Aires, 1 May (NA) -- The Programming and 
Coordination Secretariat for the Prevention of Drug Abuse and 
for the Antinarcotics Struggle today released its annual report, 
which states that "the illegal drug trade has gotten worse in 
recent years." 
  Alberto Lestelle's secretariat reported: "Argentina could 
hardly remain unaffected by the worsening of the problem," as 
"one cannot delude oneself by downplaying the power of these 
organizations, which have considerable advantages over 
government organizations, financial power being one of the main 
ones." 
  It added that exchanging cars stolen in Argentina for drugs 
from Bolivia (cocaine) and Paraguay (marijuana) has "become 
another established criminal activity." The secretariat 
explained that "these two drugs are practically the only ones 
that circulate through and are consumed in Argentina." 
  According to the official report, "the deployment of drug 
trafficking cartels to Latin American Southern Cone countries 
constitutes a regional and national threat which could shortly 
lead to extremely dangerous developments." 
  The reported stated: "As the amount of drugs in transit 
increases, so will local consumption, as illegal operations are 
frequently paid for in drugs which must, therefore, be divided 
into individual doses and sold in the country of transit." The 
report also warned that "corruption, which is one of the 
inevitable consequences of the drug trade, tends to take 
advantage of Argentina's economic opening and market freedom." 

