Language: <F P=105> Hebrew </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Excerpt] Elyaqim Rubinstein, head of the Israeli 
delegation to the talks with Jordan, has welcomed King Husayn's 
remarks regarding his desire for a warm peace with Israel. The 
king made these remarks during a meeting with Jewish leaders in 
Washington. Mr. Rubinstein reacted to the king's remarks during 
the opening of the 12th round of peace talks in Washington. Our 
correspondent Arye Golan reports: 
  [Begin recording] [Golan] On the very day in which the 
unofficial meetings between the heads of the Syrian, Jordanian, 
Lebanese, and Palestinian tracks took place, King Husayn held 
his first meeting ever with Jewish leaders in Washington. When 
asked for details regarding Crown Prince Hasan's remarks to 
YEDI'OT AHARONOT on a warm peace, King Husayn said this includes 
economic cooperation between Israel and Jordan, joint projects 
in the Jordan Valley, a joint Jordanian-Israeli-Egyptian 
electricity grid, a road passing from Jordan to Egypt via Elat, 
etc. 
  Elyaqim Rubinstein, head of the Israeli delegation, was 
naturally satisfied with these remarks: 
  [Rubinstein] Every remark by a senior Jordanian official -- 
especially the king himself -- regarding the contents of peace 
is an encouraging sign for the upcoming talks. Naturally, we 
welcome these remarks, but we could add to the king's list some 
other issues that could be dealt with in the negotiations. We 
would also like to hope that the rate of progress will meet our 
expectations. 
  [Golan] All its goodwill notwithstanding, it is clear that 
Jordan is not rushing to sign a peace treaty with Israel because 
of what is referred to here as regional constraints -- namely, 
Syria and the Palestinians. [end recording] [passage omitted] 

