Language: <F P=105> Chinese </F>
Article Type:CSO 

<F P=106> [Article by Sun Huaiyang (1327 2037 7122) and Hu Ying (5170 </F>
5391): "Analysis of Reasons for China's Slowed Population 
Increase Growth Rates"] 
  [Excerpts] [passage omitted] B. Chief Causes for 
Lower Birth Rates 
  1. Enhanced family planning 
  In 1991, the Central Committee of the Communist Party of 
China and the State Council published the "Decisions Regarding 
Enhancing Family Planning and Strictly Controlling Population 
Increases." They also convened family planning working symposia 
over the next two years which emphasized that "the party and 
government as first in command must assume overall 
responsibility and emphasize family planning themselves." This 
undoubtedly will have a powerful role in promoting family 
planning. First, all levels of leadership further improved 
their understanding of population issues. They are responsible 
for resolving problems and matters that arise in family 
planning, bringing family planning into overall national 
economic and social development plans and organizing 
coordination of joint management by involved departments. At the 
same time, they implemented a responsibility system over 
population and family planning management goals to determine 
whether each level of the government is doing a good job of 
family planning and fulfilling population control plans as an 
important component in evaluating official achievements. Second, 
in recent years all sectors of society have actively 
participated in family planning. State and local fiscal input 
have further improved contraceptive and birth control technology 
services and mother and childcare conditions. A stronger family 
planning basic service network increases the number of women of 
child-bearing age who select contraceptive measures. According 
to family planning sector statistics, in 1988, 145.79 million 
among 205.04 million married women nationwide chose 
contraceptives, for a contraceptive rate of 71.2 percent. In 
1992, 199.83 million among 239.61 million married women chose 
contraceptives, for a contraceptive rate of 83.4 percent, up 
12.2 percentage points from 1988. 
  2. Higher average first marriage age rate for women, fewer 
early marriages and births 
  In recent years, the higher average female first marriage 
age 
rate in China has had a definite influence on lowering birth 
rates. In 1988, the average female first marriage age was 21.81 
years. In 1990, it rose to 22.05 years and in 1991 it continued 
to climb to 22.21 years. By 1992, it had risen to 22.47 years, 
0.66 years higher than 1988. According to provincial figures, 
in 1992, the average age for females' first marriages in the 
three municipalities of Beijing, Tianjin and Shanghai was 24.41 
years, 23.29 years and 24.46 years, respectively, a consistently 
stable rate in recent years. The average age for first 
marriages of females in other areas was higher than in 1988, up 
an average 0.78 years, and it rose by more than one year in the 
four provinces of Fujian, Shandong, Hunan and Hainan. At the 
same time, the number of women in China who marry early dropped; 
the number of those who marry late rose. According to family 
planning sector statistics, in 1987, the early marriage rate 
based on female age calculations was 23.6 percent. In 1992 the 
figure fell to 12.9 percent, down 48 percent over 1987. 
Likewise, the late marriage rate rose from 29.0 percent in 1987 
to 36.5 percent in 1992. 
  After promulgation and implementation of China's new 
"marriage law" in 1980, there was a sharp rise in the number of 
marriages in the lower age groups. Female childbearing levels 
recovered and there was a great increase in the phenomenon of 
early childbearing. In 1981 the birthrate to Chinese women in 
the 15-19 year old age group was 6.1 per thousand, up 18.8 per 
thousand over 1986. In 1989 it continued to climb to 22.1 per 
thousand. In the 1980s, the early marriage and early 
childbearing phenomenon was relatively serious; it both brought 
about a rise in female childbearing levels and also had a 
negative effect on the physical health of women and children. 
In the past two years, the government everywhere has paid great 
heed to the issue of early female marriage and childbearing. It 
has effectively controlled the matter by augmented propaganda 
and education and adoption of a series of measures. Since 1990, 
there has been a marked reduction in early childbearing. In 
1990 the birthrate by women in the 15-19 age group fell to 12.1 
per thousand from 22.1 per thousand in 1989; in 1991 it 
continued to drop to 8.9 per thousand, falling to 7.4 per 
thousand in 1992, down 15 per thousandths from 1989. In 
particular, there has been a notable decrease in early 
childbearing by rural women. In 1989 the birthrate by rural 
woman in the 15-19 age group was 26.1 per thousand, down to 10.4 
per thousand in 1991, and down further to 8.5 per thousand in 
1992, or down 18 per thousand over 1989. According to estimates, 
10 percent of the children born in the 1980s were to females 
younger than 20 years old, implying that nearly two million of 
the 23 million new children born each year are the result of 
early childbearing. In the past two years, control of early 
marriage and childbearing has brought about a reduction in the 
birthrate of six percent, accounted for by children born 
annually in early childbearing, or nearly a reduction of one 
million children annually. 
  3. Total female birth rates lower than replacement levels, 
smaller urban-rural gap 
  Considering China as a whole in 1992, the total birth rate 
which synthetically reflects female childbearing levels fell 
from 2.25 in 1990 to below the replacement level of 2.1. In 
various areas in 1992 the total female birthrate generally 
dropped as compared with 1990, and this can be divided into 
three general categories. One category had total birth rates 
already below 1.5, which included the nine provinces and 
municipalities of Beijing, Tianjin, Liaoning, Jilin, Shanghai, 
Zhejiang, Jiangsu, Shandong and Sichuan; their natural 
population increase rate in 1992 was controlled within 10 per 
thousand. Another category had total birth rates between 1.5 and 
2.1, which included the 12 provinces and regions of Hebei, 
Shanxi, Inner Mongolia, Heilongjiang, Anhui, Fujian, Jiangxi, 
Hunan, Hubei, Henan, Shaanxi and Gansu; the natural increase 
rate was lower than 13 per thousand. The third category had 
total birth rates higher than replacement levels, which included 
the nine provinces and regions of Shandong, Shanxi, Hainan, 
Guizhou, Yunnan, Qinghai, Ningxia, Xinjiang, and Tibet; their 
natural increase rate still exceeded 13 per thousand. At the 
same time, childbearing for women of childbearing age in China 
is moving further toward the pattern of bearing children "later, 
scarcer and fewer," with a short period of sustained peak curve 
for women who did not give birth. From 1986 to 1989, nationwide 
the peak value age for female childbearing was 23 years, and the 
peak age birthrate fluctuated from 242.76 per thousand to 260.70 
per thousand. In 1991 and 1992, the peak value age for female 
childbearing rose to 24 years; the peak value age birthrate fell 
to 226.14 per thousand and 232.69 per thousand, respectively. 
Birth rates for women in all other age groups dropped in 
varying degress. 
  In the past two years the gap between urban and rural female 
birth levels has shrunk notably. In 1986, the total female 
birthrate was 2.66 in rural areas and 1.66 in urban areas. In 
1989 the respective figures were 2.60 and 1.57. Although the 
levels dropped slightly, the gap did not diminish. In the 1990s, 
this gap fell to below one. Total rural and urban female 
birthrates nationwide were 2.0 and 1.3, respectively. Although 
actual total female birthrate situations in some rural areas may 
be higher than the survey figures, the shrinking trend still 
stands for the gap between urban-rural female birth levels. 
  4. Clear drop in large family rate among children born. 
In the past two years, there has been a clear change in the 
structure of the numbers of children women bear. The number of 
unplanned for births has been reduced, especially in large 
families. The one child family rate in China rose from 51.87 
percent in 1990 to 55.24 percent in 1991; the two child rate 
fell from 31.47 percent to 30.89 percent; and the large family 
rate (three or more children) fell from 16.66 percent ot 13.87 
percent. In 1992 the one child rate further rose to 60.45 
percent while the two child and large family rates fell to 27.52 
percent and 12.03 percent, respectively. 
  Although there still are differences in the structure of the 
numbers of children in families in various parts of China, in 
1992 all are as jointly showed a rising trend in the one child 
rate and drops in the two child and large family rates. 
Compared to 1990, the one child rate rose an average 8.5 
percentage points in various ares, of which, the greatest rise 
was in Shandong province which rose from 54 percent in 1990 to 
76 percent, up 22 percentage points. The two child and large 
family rates fell 3.9 percentage points and 4.6 percentage 
points, respectively, in various areas. In 1990 the proportion 
of large families surpassing 20 percent in Shanxi, Fujian, 
Jiangxi, Henan, Hunan, Hubei and Shaanxi provinces in 1992 all 
fell more than five percentage points. 
  Single children accounted for 12.81 million of the 21.19 
million births in China in 1992, up 410,000 people over 1990; 
second children accounted for 5.83 million people, down 1.69 
million people; and third or higher children accounted for 2.55 
million people, down 1.43 million people. The numbers for second 
and third or more children fell 22.47 percent and 35.9 percent, 
respectively. Based on analyses, in 1992 the number of third or 
more children born was down alone by nearly two million people 
from the average number of third or higher births in the 1980s. 
  5. Fewer female pregnancies; "empty files" on female births 
in some areas 
  According to analyses, besides stronger and better family 
planning, the number of children born to women of childbearing 
age fell also because of a reduction in the number of women 
meeting childbearing policy conditions in some areas. In recent 
years in these areas the number of women who should give birth 
have done so in the past few years because of early marriage and 
early childbearing. In other areas in recent years there were 
relatively many unplanned births and at present strict family 
planning regulations are being implemented to control this. 
Furthermore, to mitigate the 20 - 29 year old high birth period, 
in 1991 and 1992 various areas commonly adopted a series of 
effective measures and went about family planning work in a 
tighter, earlier and firmer manner. Post-conception remedial 
measures gradually were turned into preconception management for 
women of childbearing age. Births of three or more children were 
gradually reduced to two births, meaning a corresponding 
decrease in the number of pregnant women. In addition, in 1992 
the aftereffects of long-term or permanent birth control 
measures taken in recent years played an important role in 
controlling the birth of second, third or more children. As a 
result, in some areas there were "empty files" on births of 
women in the childbearing age. 
  Although in the 1990s there will be an increase in the 
number 
of women in China in the 15 - 49 age group, rising to 310 
million people, in some areas the number of childbearing age 
women in the 20 - 29 age group is shrinking because of China's 
large population and eneven population distribution. For 
example, the number of childbearing age women is falling in the 
provinces and municipalities of Jiangsu, Zhejiang, Shandong, 
Beijing, Tianjin and Shanghai. This has played a definite role 
in reducing births in the past two years. 
  6. Change in notion of female childbearing in line with 
gradual establishment of socialist market economy. 
  China has had rapid economic development in recent years. In 
1991 China's GNP grew 7.74 percent over 1990, and rose another 
12.8 percent in 1992 over 1991. Economic development has had a 
positive role in family planning. There have been noteworthy 
successes in some areas that have tied family planning work to 
rural economic development, to peasant hard work to get rich and 
rush to become comparatively well off, and to establishing 
modern civilized happy families. 
  The gradual establishment and development of a socialist 
market economy has made economic activity flourish and increased 
circulation of the population. According to analyses, the 
percentage of people among the total population in the two 
categories of those who "have lived in their own county or town 
less than one year and have left their place of permanent 
family registration more than one year" and those who "await 
determination of permanent family registration while living in 
their own county or town" rose from 0.86 percent in 1990 to 0.94 
percent in 1992. Various areas in China rose in differing 
degrees, of which, the percentage rises of the above two 
categories in the provinces of Liaoning, Jilin, Jiangsu, 
Zhejiang, Fujian, Shandong, and Guangxi were relatively large. 
Under reform and open door conditions, a considerable portion of 
women have put more effort into economic activities. They give 
birth to fewer children at a later age in order to "get rich 
quick and rush to be comparatively well off." For example, in 
Jilin Province a survey analysis of six or seven towns, villages 
and street association family planning situations indicated 
that, of 5,750 women who received approval to give birth but did 
not give birth in 1992, 1,890 postponed childbirth because of 
business or outside work. This group of women accounts for 32.87 
percent of the number who drew birth permits but did not give 
birth, corresponding to one one-thousandth of the birth rate in 
these towns and villages in 1992. At the same time, urban 
lifestyles and the notion of having fewer but better children 
have affected rural youth near to urban areas. The concept of 
childbirth among rural youth is undergoing further change and 
beginning to move toward later marriage and birth, meaning a 
reduction in the number of those anxious to bear children and an 
increase in the number of those willing to wait. [passage 
omitted] 

