BFN 

<F P=106> [By John Deane, PRESS ASSOCIATION news correspondent] </F>
  [Text] A policeman was killed and two of his colleages are 
seriously ill in hospital today after a suspected mortar attack 
on a mobile patrol in Northern Ireland. Their Land Rover was 
rocked by a blast as it drove along Spencer Road, in the 
Waterside area of Londonderry, shortly before midnight. 
  The RUC [Royal Ulster Constabulary] confirmed that one male 
officer was killed, and two others "very seriously injured" in 
the attack. Early today a spokesperson at the town's 
Altnagelvin Hospital said the two injured officers were in "a 
very serious condition." 
  The blast was heard over a wide area of Londonderry. 
Security forces sealed off the largely commercial road before 
beginning a search operation. An RUC spokesman said the attack 
was being treated as ther work of the IRA. 
  Earlier in the evening, a man was shot and injured at a 
police checkpoint in South Armagh. Police said the man was 
taken to hospital suffering from a leg wound after a number of 
shots were fired by police at a civilian vehicle. Another man 
was arrested. 
  An investigation was mounted after the incident at Ballsmill 
Road near Silverbridge. The scene is a few miles from 
Crossmaglen, where a major security operation has been mounted 
in recent days at the start of major re-building work at the 
village security base which has been regularly attacked by the 
IRA. 

