BFN 

  [Text] Havana, 3 May (PL) -- Cuba stated today that Nelson 
Mandela and his people constitute the reality of South Africa's 
dream come true: to have apartheid beheaded. 
  An editorial by the newspaper GRANMA, official organ of the 
Central Committee of the Communist Party of Cuba, salutes the 
electoral triumph of the African National Congress (ANC) in the 
South African elections which, with its victory, has crowned the 
process sealed in the fierce fighting of Cuito Cuanavale in 
Angola. 
  GRANMA says that, the historic battle and defeat suffered by 
the racist army in the face of the resistance of the Angolans 
and Cuban international fighters changed the correlation of 
forces in South Africa and led to the current triumph of the 
South African people. 
  Regarding the struggle and merits of ANC leader Nelson 
Mandela, the paper states that when he assumes his nation's 
presidency, the world will have occasion to render tribute to 
his wisdom, courageous revolutionary stance, and unwavering 
principles. 
  It can be seen in all its dimensions that the triumph 
corresponds to those who struggle and the example offered must 
be again appreciated. The value of this example is heightened 
at this shameful moment when so many have lowered their flags 
and have repented for what they once were, it states. 
  The newspaper criticizes the regime of racial discrimination 
that existed in South Africa, noting that capitalism and 
imperialism were responsible for instilling in that state the 
notion of superior and inferior races. 
  We are proud to have been and to continue to be close 
companions of arms of Nelson Mandela and of the South African 
people, the GRANMA editorial concludes. 

