Language: <F P=105> French </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] Phnom Penh 14 Mar (AKP) -- "I appeal to the Royal 
Government and the Khmer Royal Armed Forces, as well as the 
party of Democratic Kampuchea and its armed forces, to stop 
mining our nation's land -- immediately, totally, and 
definitively," His Majesty King Norodom Sihanouk insisted in a 
10 March letter from Beijing. The letter, citing in particular 
the serious danger currently caused by land mines, stressed: 
  "It is a fact that our Cambodia has become the world 
champion 
as far as the number of invalids is concerned... Today there 
are more than 40,000 victims of mines and other explosives. To 
this number, without counting the dead, we should add another 
600 per month whose arms or legs are mutilated by explosions... 
Mine specialists -- both foreign and local -- estimate that 
nearly 10 million land mines have been laid in our poor 
motherland, while Cambodia's population is just 9 million... In 
their opinion, it would require 600 years -- or six centuries -- 
of work to clear all of these mines on our current small 
budget... Therefore, I appeal to the Royal Government and the 
Khmer Royal Armed Forces, as well as the party of Democratic 
Kampuchea and its armed forces, to stop mining our land -- 
immediately, totally, and definitively; to begin joint mine 
clearing operations; and to destroy completely all mines 
remaining in their stocks... I would like to thank the soldiers 
and/or the warriors of all parties in advance for their 
patriotism and their nobility in totally destroying the land 
mines so that our Cambodia and our Cambodian population can 
live." 

