BFN 

    [Editorial Report] The following is a compilation of 
reports on Mexican economic developments monitored through 17 
May. 
  A Mexican Petroleum, PEMEX, spokesperson reported on 10 May 
the company registered a 4 percent increase in its production 
during the first two months of 1994 compared to the same period 
in 1993. Of the 2.71 million barrels a day it produced during 
that period, it exported 1.34 million to its clients in America, 
Europe, and Asia, while it refined the remainder to sell in 
Mexico as various petroleum products. During that period, the 
United States was the primary foreign client with 73.1 percent 
of the exports, followed by Spain with 11.2 percent, and Japan 
with 4.4 percent. (Madrid EFE in Spanish 1735 GMT 10 May 94) 
  Foreign investment in the Mexican Stock Exchange, BMV, 
registered an 11.54 percent drop in the first four months of 
1994 caused by investors' nervousness over the country's 
political and social instability. Figures indicate that in 
January foreign participation reached $60,924,055,000, a 
historic level for the market, while in April, it dropped to 
$48,328,032,000. (Mexico City UNOMASUNO in Spanish 10 May 94 p 
18) 
  An analysis by the Confederation of National Chambers of 
Commerce, Concanaco, indicates that although tourism activity 
has improved, the number of tourists must increase, markets must 
be diversified, and the tourism infrastructure must be 
modernized so as to generate more revenue and create more jobs. 
It reported that 6.625 million tourists visited the country in 
1993, a 4.3 percent increase over 1992. (Mexico City EL 
FINANCIERO in Spanish 10 May 94 p 28) 
  Analysts of the Mexican Employers Confederation, Coparmex, 
indicated that the meager recovery and the critical situation of 
most of the micro, small, and medium-sized businesses prevents 
them from creating new jobs in the short term. Added to the 
elimination of jobs, this creates an employment outlook that is 
not very optimistic for 1994-1995. On the same subject, the 
National Processing Industry Association, Canacintra, maintains 
that this year at least 50 percent of the population entering 
the labor market will not find employment. The lack of a 
recovery in the national production sector, especially in 
industry, means that less than 500,000 new jobs will be created, 
compared to a demand for more than 1 million jobs. (Mexico City 
EL FINANCIERO in Spanish 11 May 94 p 28) 
  Telecommunications of Mexico, Telecomm, officials have 
admitted that this sector's obsolete infrastructure has led to 
economic losses difficult to quantify and underutilization of 
the demand for satellite and telegraph telecommunications. They 
added that this is why it must resort to privatization, 
modernization, or outright elimination of some of its services. 
Regarding ground stations for national television, Telecomm has 
253 but only 14 transmitters are in operation. Ninety percent 
are receivers, most of which were transferred by Televisa 
between 1980 and 1986 and are already obsolete. There are plans 
to modernize the center that monitors the quality of television 
signals because it is more than 20 years old. Regarding telex 
service, demand has fallen drastically due to its technological 
obsolescence, bad quality, and high cost. (Mexico City EL 
FINANCIERO in Spanish 11 May 94 p 11) 
  In the last three years, there has been an inconsistency 
between the economic policy of the National Development Plan, 
PND, and the evolution of the main macroeconomic variables, 
particularly the GDP. According to research by EL FINANCIERO, 
based on information from the National Institute of Geography, 
Statistics, and Data Processing, the gap between the government 
projections and the economic reality was influenced by the 
reduced presence of the main productive sectors in the domestic 
sector. Expenditures by the industrial sector registered a 5 
percent drop between 1989 and 1993 while those in the service 
sector grew only 0.8 percent in the same period. During the 
first three years of the current administration, the economic 
policy followed the authorities' plans and the evolution of the 
main indicators even surpassed the goals set initially. The GDP 
was expected to grow between 2.9 and 3.5 percent between 1989 
and 1992 but reality surpassed the projections, reaching an 
average of 3.8 percent. However, beginning in the second half 
of the six-year term, the macroeconomic variables entered into a 
difficult situation. In 1993, there was a 1.4 percent drop in 
investment. In order for the GDP to reach the level that was 
proposed in the PND, it will need to increase more than 9 
percent by the end of the year. This seems unlikely when one 
observes there were no satisfactory results in the economic 
recovery in the first quarter. (Mexico City EL FINANCIERO in 
Spanish 11 May 94 p 28) 
  The National Chamber of Commerce, Canaco, reported that 
retail sales in Mexico City dropped 40 percent during the first 
quarter. Retailers attributed the plunge to "social 
uncertainty" and "nervousness" among consumers. They see "no 
major recovery during the second quarter" as the current 
situation is expected to continue. The report lists toys with a 
54.4 percent drop, clothing in general with a 47.8 percent fall, 
jewelry with 45 percent, automotive parts with 43.7 percent, 
furniture and major appliances with 43.3 percent, and records 
and phonograph equipment with 42.9 percent. Canaco said that 
"small and medium businesses are especially susceptible to such 
adverse conditions." Some merchants reported that they were 
forced to lay off personnel, close branches, and adjust working 
hours. (Mexico City LA JORNADA in Spanish 11 May 94 pp 1, 46) 
  The domestic debt "rose 32.5 percent from December 1993 to 
April 1994," according to a report issued by the Bank of Mexico. 
The report says that the federal debt rose to 220 billion 
pesos. The Treasury Secretariat and the BMV pointed out that 
"for every additional percentage point gained by Federal 
Treasury Certificates, the domestic debt increases at least 764 
million new pesos per year." (Mexico City LA JORNADA in Spanish 
11 May 94 pp 1, 48) 
  Carlos Hank Gonzalez, the secretary of agriculture and 
hydraulic resources, announced that the development banks "will 
invest 16.373 billion new pesos in 1994 to support production 
projects." The investment "will not only be in the area of 
loans, but in new technology for cattle farming, agriculture, 
finance, and marketing." In explaining the benefits that NAFTA 
will offer this sector, the secretary regretted that "we would 
have liked to see some import tax cuts for several other 
products," such as melons, watermelons, and several green 
vegetables, "but we must work with what we managed to agree on." 
(Mexico City LA JORNADA in Spanish 11 May 94 pp 1, 49) 
  Chiapas State Government officials announced that they 
expect 
to pay approximately 954,000 new pesos a month to cattle 
breeders in Ocosingo, Altamirano, and Las Margaritas, to 
compensate for land they lost to Indian occupations in the 
recent uprising. There are over 21,220 hectares of land 
involved in an agreement reached with the breeders, which totals 
8.59 million new pesos in compensation payments. Governor 
Javier Lopez Moreno said that "the government is capable and 
willing to solve the economic, political, and moral problems of 
the cattle breeders and the Indians alike." (Mexico City LA 
JORNADA in Spanish 11 May 94 p 9) 
  Pemex Director Francisco Rojas, in an interview with LA 
JORNADA, reported that the corporation is now ranked sixth in 
worldwide production figures. Rojas said that total production 
for 1994 will average 2.775 million barrels per day, 29,000 
higher than the 1982 record. He added that reserves total 
64.516 billion barrels of crude, estimated at $850 billion. It 
will be necessary to invest about $20 billion in order to 
maintain the current levels, "but that does not mean Pemex's 
doors will be left wide open to private domestic or foreign 
investment." (Mexico City LA JORNADA in Spanish 12 May 94 pp 
1,54] 
  Speaking before the Confederation of National Chambers of 
Commerce (Concanaco), Carlos Isoard, director of the Bank of 
Mexico's Commercial Development Fund, reported that the 
commercial sector's debt with development banks has increased 
nearly 200 percent so far in the current six-year period and is 
expected to increase another 100 percent in 1994. In five 
years, loans for this sector have increased by 686 percent. 
Concanaco presented a number of proposals to stimulate this 
sector, including the liberation of the financial ceiling, 
opening credit lines of as much as 50,000 new pesos, and 
establishing stopgap loans and preferential rates. Roberto 
Dieguez, director of the National Foreign Trade Bank, reported 
that the loans granted by the bank between 1989 and 1993 
increased 375 percent. The demand for credit is so heavy that 
more than 74,000 enterprises requested loans in 1993. (Mexico 
City LA JORNADA in Spanish 12 May 94 p 52) 
  The Bank of Mexico has reported that in March the nation's 
currency grew at an annual rate of 19.9 percent. The bank also 
reported that in March bank deposits increased by only 100 
million new pesos over the previous month. Over the same 
period, financing for the non-banking sector increased by 14.4 
billion new pesos. The amount of bills and coins in circulation 
increased 21 percent, and the amount checks increased 19.5 
percent. Two reasons were given for the increase in money in 
circulation: 1) abnormally low bank balances in 1993 because of 
the economic slowdown, which in turn led to lower interest rates 
paid to depositors; and 2) the heavy demand for currency in 
March. The bank also reported that in the first quarter of the 
year financial middlemen received 14.3 billion more new pesos 
from the public. (Mexico City EL FINANCIERO in Spanish 12 May 
94 p 6) 
  Mexican Petroleum Director Francisco Rojas has said that 
larger crude oil production will depend on investment and that 
at least $20 billion will be required during the next five-year 
period. Nevertheless, he reported that the production of liquid 
petroleum products in 1994 will exceed the 1982 all-time record. 
The 1991-1994 average daily production will be 2.775 million 
barrels -- that is, 29,000 more barrels a day than in 1982 -- a 
figure that places Mexico as the world's sixth largest producer. 
Proven oil reserves on 31 December 1993 were 64.516 billion 
barrels of crude oil. At $13 a barrel, these reserves were 
valued at around $850 billion. (Mexico City UNOMASUNO in Spanish 
12 May 94 p 22) 
  The Mexican beef industry, unsubsidized and pressured by 
grain shortages, high interest rates, increasing beef imports 
spawned by NAFTA, and great commercialization difficulties, 
could very well go bankrupt if it is not placed on equal footing 
with the U.S. industry. Most of northern and northeastern 
Mexico's fattening businesses have gone under. The Mexican beef 
fatteners are alarmed. U.S. exporters plan to ship 
400,000-500,000 metric tons of beef, worth $1 billion, to Mexico 
by the year 2000. (Mexico City UNOMASUNO in Spanish 12 May 94 pp 
1, 22) 
  At a cost of more than $2.4 billion, the six units of the 
Federal Electricity Commission's Petacalco thermoelectric 
complex will become operational next month, according to plant 
Manager Isidro Bernal Salinas. The complex will meet the 
electric energy needs of 11.5 million people in the states of 
Michoacan, Guerrero, Colima, Morelos, and parts of Jalisco and 
Mexico. The plant, the largest of its kind in Latin America, 
can burn fuel oil and coal imported from Australia, Canada, and 
the United States. The plant will be connected to the national 
power grid in June or July through two 230,000-volt and three 
400,000-volt lines. Authorities say that on completion the 
plant will be capable of generating 18.396 billion kilowatts at 
full capacity. (Mexico City LA JORNADA in Spanish 13 May 94 p 37) 
  The Chamber of Deputies has received a report from the 
Finance Secretariat saying that public finances show a surplus 
of 522 million new pesos for the January-March period. (Mexico 
City Canal 13 Television Azteca Network in Spanish 1300 GMT 16 
May 94) 
  The Finance Secretariat has reported that Mexico's exports 
of 
assembly plant products to the United States and Canada 
increased by 24 percent and 29 percent, respectively, during the 
first two months of the year. (Mexico City NOTIMEX in Spanish 
2058 GMT 16 May 94) 

