BFN 

  [Text] Lithuanian Foreign Minister Povilas Gylys has 
essentially given a favorable assessment to the meeting of the 
foreign ministers of the North Atlantic Cooperation Council held 
in Istanbul last Friday. 
  According to the minister, the politicians had an open 
exchange of opinions, but on some issues the dialogue was rather 
tough. Among such issues, Povilas Gylys mentioned at a news 
conference on Monday Russia's stance on the new partners of the 
West European Union. According to the minister, the North 
Atlantic Cooperation Council intended to welcome the granting of 
the status of partners of the West European Union to nine 
Central European countries, including the Baltic states. 
However, under Russian pressure, it limited itself to 
mentioning this fact in the final communique of the meeting. 
  Povilas Gylys said that a strong and negative reaction by 
some participants in the meeting was provoked by Russia's hints 
about a possible revision of the treaty on the reduction of 
conventional arms in Europe. Russia endeavors to link the 
demilitarization of the Kaliningrad region with the possibility 
of maintaining larger armed forces on its northern and southern 
borders. This was categorically opposed by Turkey. 
  Minister Povilas Gylys stated at the news conference that 
Lithuania is interested in the demilitarization of Kaliningrad, 
but at the same time understands the importance of the treaty on 
the reduction of conventional arms in Europe. Lithuania cannot 
be excluded from the European context, Povilas Gylys stated, 
adding that it would not be practical to maintain that Lithuania 
can influence that process. 

