BFN 

  [Text] Baku, June 20 (TURAN) -- The local population of the 
Kusarskiy region as well as the authorities consider the events, 
which took place in the village of Piral of the Kusarskiy region 
of Azerbaijan on June 14, to be a crime without any ethnic 
colouring, said the Chairman of Azerbaijan's National Equality 
Party, Fakhraddin Aidayev. 
  Aidayev said that on June 14 armed policemen carried out a 
mobilization in Piral village trying to find deserters. As a 
result of confrontation between them and local population, one 
Russian citizen of Lezghin nationality, Nazim Safarov was killed 
and the other one, Fail Mirzabekov, was seriously injured. 
  The State Commission dealing with investigation of the 
reason 
of the conflict has been created. The inquiry has begun. 
"However, one thing is clear now: the policemen exceeded their 
authorities. Nobody must be killed during the mobilization", 
mentioned Aidayev. 
  Aidayev also added that the official media distributes 
unobjective information concerning the Piral incident. 
  Aidayev said that on June 15 there was a rally in the region 
centre of the Kusarskiy region. The rally participants did not 
forward political claims. "They demanded making an assessment 
of the Piral incident", said Fakhraddin Aidayev. 
  "The population of the Kusarskiy region hopes on objective 
results of the investigation by the State Commission", said 
Aidayev. He mentioned that the population demands making the 
heads of law enforcement bodies answerable for their activities 
since Azerbaijan's enemies can take advantage of their 
activities. 

