BFN 

<F P=106> [By Linda Choy] </F>
  [Text] A Chinese official in the territory yesterday 
rejected accusations that the Chinese Government was tightening 
control on Hong Kong reporters working in China. 
  Sun Nansheng, the propaganda chief of XINHUA (the New China 
News Agency), said some reporters who had signed up to boycott 
the mainland's propaganda tours had been allowed to cover the 
Preliminary Working Committee meetings in Beijing this week. 
"There is no question of (China) trying to tighten or limit 
reporting activities in the mainland," he said. 
  His assurance came after a rejection of applications by 
journalists from at least seven media organisations to cover the 
Qiandao Lake incident in Zhejiang Province earlier this month. 
The rejected applicants had all signed a protest letter to the 
Chinese Government against the jailing of Hong Kong journalist 
Xi Yang. 
  Mr Sun said that there was a need for reporters to strictly 
abide by the laws of China while carrying out their duties. "I 
feel that a consensus is necessary; when we talk about press 
freedom it should be discussed under the preposition of abiding 
by the laws in the mainland." 
  On calls for the removal of regulations for Hong Kong 
reporters working in China, Mr Sun said they were needed to 
"protect the interests" of reporters. China imposed seven 
regulations on reporting by Hong Kong journalists after the 1989 
Tiananmen Square massacre, including filing an application 
stating the purpose of the trip. 
  Mr Sun said the rules were a kind of protection for 
journalists. 
  He said 1,700 reporters were given approval to report in 
China last year. 

