BFN 

  [Excerpts] Paris, April 13 (AFP) -- France called on 
Wednesday [13 April] for an international effort to restore 
peace to Rwanda, saying Paris cannot be "the policeman of 
Africa." 
  Development Aid Minister Michel Roussin, addressing the 
National Assembly, said it was "the international community's 
duty to take over from us and the United Nations should now 
bring together the different parties and bring the protagonists 
to a ceasefire." 
  In the Senate, Defence Minister Francois Leotard said the 
last of 450 French paratroopers flown into the central African 
state at the weekend were about to be withdrawn. 
  The French, who flew in from their base in nearby Central 
African Republic, evacuated 1,300 foreign nationals from the 
Rwandan capital Kigali, 454 of them French. [passage omitted] 
  The minister also confirmed the deaths of two French 
gendarmes who were military advisors and the wife of one of 
them, without giving details. He said the bodies would be 
repatriated. 
  On Saturday Army Chief of Staff Jacques Lanxade said he 
believed they had been killed by rebels of the Rwandan Patriotic 
Front (RPF). 
  Roussin also paid tribute to the three French crew who died 
with Rwandan President Juvenal Habyarimana when his plane 
crashed as it was landing in Kigali last Friday. Burundian 
President Cyprien Ntaryamira was also killed in the crash. 
  The UN already has 2,300 soldiers and 300 observers in 
Rwanda 
from 23 countries. Nearly 1,000 of them come from Bangladesh, 
840 from Ghana and 420 from Belgium. 

