CSO 

<F P=106> [Report by Vladivostok City Center for Disease Control: </F>
"Number of Infected Persons Increases"] 
  [Text] The incidence of disease in Vladivostok not 
only is not going down--it is rising. For instance, the 
incidence of diphtheria in 1993 as compared to 1992 increased 
17-fold, measles--48-fold, and whooping cough--fourfold. 
  This situation has been caused by unjustifiably broad 
contraindications against vaccination and underestimation of the 
importance of the latter by city residents. 
  The vaccines we use meet international standards and cause 
fewer side effects than foreign analogues. There are currently 
practically no contraindications against the use of preventive 
vaccination. Even if a child or an adult suffers from some 
chronic disease, including an allergy, vaccination can be done 
after consulting a specialist and a preparatory medication 
therapy. 
  Analysis of the spread of infections that can be controlled 
by preventive vaccination (diphtheria, measles, whooping cough, 
polio, tetanus) show the effectiveness of vaccination. It is not 
accidental that the Russian Federation law on the hygiene and 
disease control welfare makes vaccination against these 
infectious diseases mandatory. 
  In the event vaccination is rejected even on an individual 
basis, collective immunity is not created and the danger of 
infectious disease is actually the greatest for those ill 
children and adults who are temporarily exempt from vaccination. 
Therefore, besides responsibility for one's own health, each 
person also has an obligation with respect to the health of the 
people around him. 
  Only preventive vaccination can stop the rise of infections 
transmitted through the respiratory channel. Vaccinations are 
given free of charge in all city polyclinics. 

