BFN 

  [Text] Kuala Lumpur, April 28 (OANA-BERNAMA) -- Malaysia 
Thursday welcomed the proposed international conference to find 
a comprehensive solution to the situation in Bosnia-Herzegovina 
but stressed that the fundamental premises should remain right 
and valid. 
  Malaysia also called on the United Nations to lift the arms 
embargo immediately to allow a sovereign member state to defend 
itself from Serbian aggression. 
  Speaking at the United Nations Security Council debate on 
Bosnia- Herzegovina in New York, Foreign Minister Abdullah Ahmad 
Badawi said the UN should also arm and equip the UN Protection 
Force (UNPROFOR) troops accordingly, so that they could enforce 
the peace and protect the people of Bosnia-Herzegovina. 
  The text of Abdullah's speech was faxed to BERNAMA from the 
Office of the Permanent Mission of Malaysia to the UN in New 
York. 
  On the international conference, Abdullah said the proposed 
peace process should involve the parties of the conflict, namely 
the major powers, the UN, Organisation of Islamic Conference 
(OIC) member countries and the UNPROFOR-troop contributing 
countries. 
  Abdullah said that to achieve peace, the international 
community must contribute to the peace process by setting in 
place the structures and the necessary conditions. 
  Malaysia, he said, was also disappointed with some countries 
for hindering the work of the international war crimes tribunal. 
He added that there was enough evidence to put on trial Serbian 
leaders for their atrocities. 
  Abdullah said Malaysia would contribute US$2 million (about 
RM5 million) towards defraying the cost of the work of the 
tribunal. 

