Language: <F P=105> Chinese </F>
Article Type:BFN 

<F P=106> [By reporter Gai Jindong (5556 6855 2639) and correspondent </F>
Huang Xinxiang (7806 2946 4382)] 
  [Text] Beijing, 12 Mar (XINHUA) -- These reporters have 
gathered from the Frontier Guard Bureau of the Ministry of 
Public Security that at noon on 9 March, officers and men from 
the Puxi station of the Putian Frontier Guard Detachment of the 
Fujian Frontier Guard Corps of the Armed Police Force seized 6 
million yuan's worth of counterfeit renminbi in Wenjia harbor, 
Putian. "Xintongfa," the Taiwan fishing vessel involved in the 
case, was taken into custody. Two Taiwan fishermen, Chen Tongfu 
and Chen Xianming, were detained in accordance with the law. 
  It has been disclosed that at midday on 7 March, Chen Tongfu 
and Chen Xianming, fishermen from Taiwan's Jilong [Keelung] 
City, sailed the "Xintongfa" fishing vessel out of Jilong 
harbor, carrying with them 6 million yuan's worth of counterfeit 
renminbi. At noon on 8 March, they berthed at Tailun in Wenjia, 
Putian, under the pretext of seeking shelter from the wind. On 
9 March, officers and men from the Puxi Frontier Guard Station 
boarded "Xintongfa" to conduct an inspection in accordance with 
relevant provisions. Among worn-out fishing gear on deck they 
found four cardboard boxes containing 6 million yuan's worth of 
counterfeit renminbi denominated in 100 yuan and bearing a fake 
printing year of 1980. This was the first major case involving 
counterfeit renminbi uncovered by frontier guards from the 
Ministry of Public Security in coastal areas since the beginning 
of this year. 
  The case is now under further investigation. 

