BFN 

<F P=106> ["Statement issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the </F>
Kingdom of Thailand"] 
  [Text] The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has observed that 
many countries have promulgated laws and regulations, which, de 
facto or de jure, have led to the seizure of foreign fishing 
trawlers or the imprisonment of foreign fishermen on charges of 
violating the laws and regulations on fishing in their exclusive 
economic zones. 
  The Ministry of Foreign Affairs therefore wishes to give 
general notification of the Thai Government's position in this 
regard as follows: 
  The seizure of fishing trawlers and the imprisonment of 
fishermen are blatant violations, both in letter and in spirit, 
of Clause 72, paragraphs two and three, of the UN Convention on 
the Law of the Sea of 1982. All countries concerned are obliged 
to faithfully abide by the convention as signatories to the 
legislation or as countries which have given their ratification 
of the convention. In particular, the said UN convention is to 
become effective from 16 May 1994. 
  Therefore, the Thai Government has to lodge a strong protest 
through the UN secretary general, in his capacity as the 
custodian of the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea of 1982, 
over the said seizure of trawlers and imprisonment of fishermen. 
  Thailand hopes that those countries will amend their laws 
and 
regulations in compliance with the obligations enshrined in the 
said convention, which they have already accepted. 

