BFN 

  [Text] A group of intellectuals in Benguela Province has 
told the Voice of Resistance of the Black Cockerel, Vorgan, 
correspondent in that province that all bilateral accords which 
the Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola-Labor Party, 
MPLA-PT, government may sign with other countries are bound to 
fail completely because of the war in this country. Those 
Angolan cadres, who have an in-depth knowledge of the country's 
political, military, economic, and social situation, were 
reacting to the most recent announcement by the MPLA-PT's 
embassy in Washington saying that the Luanda government's 
council of ministers had approved an accord to facilitate 
private U.S. investment in this country. 
  Those Angolans warned the government and all U.S. 
entrepreneurs not to be fooled by the easy conditions the 
MPLA-PT government is offering at this stage when the country is 
beset by war. To invest when a war is on is tantamount to 
throwing money away. Those Angolans believe that Americans 
should first become constructively involved in the search for a 
peaceful settlement to the Angolan conflict by persuading the 
MPLA-PT to be flexible at the Lusaka peace talks and by making 
it stop the war that it has been waging on the National Union 
for the Total Independence of Angola, UNITA, throughout Angolan 
territory. 
  Those intellectuals in Benguela concluded by saying that 
once 
those conditions have been met, all U.S. private investment will 
be welcome in Angola. 

