BFN 

  [Text] UNITA [National Union for the Total Independence of 
Angola] rebel troops this afternoon resumed shelling of the 
besieged city of Kuito. Throughout the day, snipers continued 
to fire at the residents looking for food, water, and firewood 
following a lull in the shelling. A source with the Bie 
Operational Command has described UNITA's suspension of shelling 
and its resumption in the afternoon as a maneuver that fits 
within the framework of preparations planned for the next few 
hours. The source added that today there were countless 
movements by UNITA troops, while long-range artillery fired at 
various parts of the city of Kuito. UNITA troops used vehicles 
confiscated from humanitarian agencies during the evacuation of 
relief workers. 
  The food situation is worsening. Five people have already 
starved to death in the past 72 hours. The figure is likely to 
increase unless the situation is remedied. 
  In Malanje, Jonas Savimbi's men today suffered human and 
material losses when they clashed with government troops in the 
outlaying areas of that city. Sources with the Northwestern 
Military Command revealed that at 1315 [1215 GMT] today, a clash 
took place in Corta Lenha locality, some 16 km east of the city 
of Malanje. Government forces killed 11 rebels, and captured 
(?six) AKM's, three PKM machine guns, eight 81-mm, 82-mm, and 
60-mm mortar grenades, 14 B-12 gun shells, two radio antennas, 
and kitchen equipment. The sources regretted to announced the 
death of an officer. Two soldiers were slightly wounded. 
  General Agostinho Fernandes, commander of the Northwestern 
Military Command, today paid a visit to combatants stationed 14 
km east of Malanje. Recently, the combatants inflicted heavy 
losses on the enemy. 

