Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] Beirut, Jan 31 (AFP)--Investigators hunting for the 
killers of a Jordanian diplomat are hopeful of making arrests 
after witnesses provided descriptions and other information, 
Interior Minister Bisharah Mirhij said on Monday [31 January]. 
  A gunman shot dead embassy first secretary Na'ib 'Umran 
al-Ma'aiytah outside his Beirut home on Saturday and seized 
documents from his briefcase. 
  He was the first diplomat to be killed in Lebanon since the 
end of the 15-year civil war in 1990. 
  No group has claimed responsibility for the murder, which 
Jordan blamed on opponents of the Middle East peace process. 
  "Witnesses have given the security services a description of 
the killers," Mirhij told AFP. "This information could lead to 
their arrest," he said. 
  "Some witnesses also revealed that the killer seized a file 
from the Jordanian diplomat's car," he added. 
  According to the latest police report, al-Ma'aiytah, a 
42-year-old father of three, was killed when a gunman pumped 10 
bullets into his neck, head and chest as he sat in his Mercedes. 
  The killer then fled in another car with an accomplice. 
  Jordanian Foreign Ministry officials, citing Lebanese 
police, 
reported on Sunday that a file which al-Ma'aiytah had at the 
time of his killing had disappeared. 
  Jordan's ambassador in Lebanon, Fakhri Abu-Talib, said "the 
murder was planned and carried out by professionals and it could 
have taken place in any other country." 
  The killing came almost a week after Jordan's King Husayn 
said in Washington that he hoped to meet Israeli Prime Minister 
Yitzhaq Rabin to boost the chances for peace. 
  Several Palestinian and Lebanese groups opposed to the peace 
process, including pro-Iranian and pro-Syrian factions, are 
based in Beirut. 

