Language: <F P=105> Chinese </F>
Article Type:BFN 

<F P=106> [By Li Guirong (2621 2710 2837): "Our Region Achieved Great </F>
Progress in Last Year's Reform, Opening Up, and Economic 
Construction"] 
  [Text] Reporter learned from the new briefing held by the 
regional government on 25 January that last year our region 
persisted in regarding economic construction as the central 
task, conscientiously implemented the central authorities' 
series of major policy decisions and plans on strengthening and 
improving macroeconomic regulation and control, seized the 
opportunity to deepen reform and accelerate development, and 
achieved major progress in reform, opening up, and economic 
construction. 
  In 1993, the major characteristics in our region's national 
economic development were: 
  1. The total social supply increased comprehensively, and 
the 
primary, secondary, and tertiary industries steadily developed. 
According to initial estimates, the gross domestic product of 
the whole year was valued at 45.516 billion yuan (calculated in 
terms of the prices of that year and the rate is calculated in 
terms of constant prices, similarly hereafter), up 10.6 percent 
over the previous year, of which, the increased value of the 
primary industry may reach 14.77 billion yuan, up 5 percent over 
the previous year, and the rate of increase was quicker than the 
national average by 1.3 percentage point; the increased value of 
the secondary industry may reach 18.8 billion yuan, up 16.4 
percent over the previous year; and the increased value of the 
tertiary industry may reach 11.946 billion yuan, up 9.7 percent 
over the previous year. A bumper agricultural harvest was 
reaped despite the year of serious disasters, the total output 
value of agriculture amounted to 19.5 billion yuan, up 6 percent 
over the previous year, and the total grain output registered an 
all-time record to reach 11.08 billion kg, up 5.9 percent over 
the bumper harvest year of 1992; the total number of livestock 
during the year was 55.777 million, the highest record in 
history, and the number of livestock in stock at the end of the 
year reached 42.47 million, an increase of 786,000 over the 
year-end figure of the previous year. Fairly rapid increases 
were made in industrial production, with the total industrial 
output value reaching 50.5 billion yuan, up 12.78 percent over 
the previous year, and the production of the nonstate industrial 
sector, in particular, developed speedily and increased by 26.64 
percent over the previous year, which was quicker than the rate 
of increase of the state-owned industrial sector by 21.8 percent. 
  2. Social demands increased rapidly, particularly investment 
demands increased speedily, and consumer demands were steady and 
active. Based on initial statistics, the region's total 
investments in fixed assets amounted to 21.056 billion yuan, up 
41.09 percent over the previous year. Of these investments, 
13.136 billion yuan were used for state-owned capital 
construction projects, up 43.83 percent, and 4.107 billion yuan 
were for equipment replacement and technical updating, up 58.33 
percent, all setting the best record in history. The domestic 
markets were stable and invigorated. The annual retail sales of 
commodities in society totaled 21.968 billion yuan, up 17.5 
percent over the previous year. Of this, the retail sales of 
consumer goods increased 19.56 percent. 
  3. Foreign economic relations were further expanded and the 
use of foreign capital increased by 100 percent. Based on 
initial statistics, the whole region's volume of foreign import 
and export trades totalled $1.2 billion, up 28.29 percent over 
the previous year, an all-time record. Of this, the volume of 
imports totalled $550 million, up 59.42 percent; and the volume 
of exports totalled $650 million, up 9.95 percent. Newly 
registered "three types of foreign-funded enterprises" numbered 
416, an increase of 1.25 percent over the previous year. 
  4. Financial revenue rapidly increased and the financial 
order improved noticeably. The whole region's 1993 financial 
revenue from the localities is expected to reach 5.5 billion 
yuan, up 41.02 percent; and financial expenditures, 8.76 billion 
yuan, an increase of 21.6 percent over the previous year, shows 
that the growth of financial revenue is quicker than the growth 
of financial expenditures by 19.42 percent. Financial order 
improved noticeably, the phenomenon of arbitrarily collecting 
unwarranted funds and lending loans was checked, and the total 
urban and rural savings deposits amounted to 23.214 billion 
yuan, up 29.64 percent over the previous year. 
  5. The incomes of urban and rural residents steadily 
increased, and their living standards were further enhanced. 
Based on initial statistics, the total payroll of workers across 
the region in 1993 amounted to 10.971 billion yuan, up 21.34 
percent over the previous year. Of this, the wages of workers 
of state-owned units increased 22.76 percent. The average wage 
of workers was 2,772 yuan, an increase of 19.59 percent over the 
previous year. The average per-capita income for living 
expenses of urban residents throughout the region was 1,712 
yuan, up 27.3 percent over the previous year. After price 
factors were deducted, the actual increase was 11.6 percent. 
The average per-capita net income of peasants and herdsmen 
reached 829.1 percent, up 15.3 percent. When the price 
increases were factored in, the actual increase was 3.6 percent. 
Of this, the average per-capita net income of peasants was 
777.9 yuan, up 15.7 percent; showing an actual increase of 3.8 
percent when the price factors were excluded; and that of 
herdsmen, 1,164.1 yuan, up 13.9 percent, showing an actual 
increase of 3 percent when the price factors were deducted. 
  6. Definite achievements were made in family planning work, 
and population growth was effectively brought under control. 
Based on calculations made in the sample survey on the changes 
in population, the whole region's birth rate in 1993 was 18.48 
per thousand, the mortality rate was 6.83 per thousand, the 
natural population growth rate was 11.65 per thousand, and the 
region's year-end population figure was 22,324,100, an increase 
of 258,600 people, or 1.17 percent, over the year-end figure of 
the previous year. 
  In 1993, our region's economic situation was good on the 
whole. However, prominent problems still existed in the economic 
life, which were mainly manifested in the economic development 
gap between our region and the whole country and the existing 
problems, namely, the shortage of funds, the management 
difficulties of enterprises, poor economic efficiency, 
irrational structure, and the high commodity prices on the 
market. 

