 

l. Description of Project: The existing unlicensed project 
consists of: 

1. a dam, consisting of (a) a westerly abutment, adjoining 
the Elm Street Bridge; (b) a concrete spillway section, about 
29.5 feet long by 15.4 feet high, with a crest elevation of 
273.3 feet National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD); (c) a 
granite blocked pier, about 6 feet long; (d) a granite 
blocked spillway section, about 96 feet long by average 
height of 12 feet, with a crest elevation of 271.3 feet 
(NGVD), topped with 2-foot-high pin-supported wooden 
flashboards; and (e) an easterly abutment adjoining the 
foundation of an abandoned mill building, with two 4-foot-wide by 5-foot-high sluice gates; 2. a reservoir, with
(a) a 
normal pool elevation of 273.3 feet (NGVD); (b) a surface 
area of about 27 acres; (c) a gross storage capacity of about 
103 acre-feet; 3. an intake area leading to the penstock, 
which consists of (a) a forebay canal, about 38 feet wide by 
120 feet long, equipped with 45-foot-long by 11-foot-deep 
steel trashracks with 3/8-inch steel bars at 2-inch spacings; 
(b) a triangular headgate flume, with a 12-foot by 12-foot 
wooden headgate; 4. a 470-foot-long by 11-foot-diameter 
buried steel penstock; 5. a powerhouse, equipped with (a) 
two horizontal generating units, consisting of a 960- 
kilowatts (kW) General Electric generator driven by an S. 
Morgan Smith double-runner turbine, with two 36-inch-diameter 
runners, each rated at 707 and 625 horsepower (hp) and a 350- 
kW Westinghouse synchronous generator driven by an S. Morgan 
Smith double-runner turbine, with two 27-inch-diameter 
runners, each rated at 308 hp; both units having (b) a 
hydraulic capacity range of 120 to 560 cfs; (c) an average 
head of 37.7 feet; (d) a power factor of 1.00 kW/kVA; and (e) 
discharging into a tailrace channel about 290 feet long by 40 
feet wide, with a normal tailwater elevation of 235.6 feet 
(NGVD); 6. a 34.5-kilovolt (kV), transmission line; and 7. 
appurtenant facilities. 

m. Purpose of Project: All project energy generated would be 
sold to a local utility. 

n. This notice also consists of the following standard 
paragraphs: B1, and D5. 

o. Available Location of Application: A copy of the 
application, as amended and supplemented, is available for 
inspection and reproduction at the Commission's Public 
Reference and Files Maintenance Branch, located at 941 North 
Capitol Street, N.E., Room 3104, Washington, D.C., 20426, or 
by calling (202) 2081371. A copy is also available for 
inspection and reproduction at Consolidated Hydro Maine, Inc. 
Andover Business Park, 200 Bulfinch Drive, Andover, MA 
01810. 


5a. Type of Application: Amendment of License.

b. Project No: 1417045.

c. Date Filed: July 28, 1994.

d. Applicant: Central Nebraska Public Power and 
Irrigation District.

e. Name of Project: Central Nebraska Project.

f. Location: On North Platte and Platte Rivers 
in Keith, Lincoln, Dawson and Gosper Counties, Nebraska.

g. Filed Pursuant to: Federal Power Act, 16 U.S.C. Sec.
791 (a)825(r).

h. Applicant Contact: Gary D. Bachman, Van Ness Feldman,
1050 Thomas Jefferson Street, N.W., Seventh Floor, Washington, D.C. 20007, (202) 2981880.

i. FERC Contact: Anum Purchiaroni, (202) 2193297.

j. Comment Date: October 17, 1994.

k. Description of Project: Central Nebraska Public Power and 
Irrigation District (licensee) filed an application to amend 
its license. The licensee proposes to revise its project 
boundary because it intends to transfer ownership of the 
Canaday Steam Plant to Nebraska Public Power District (NPPD). 
The licensee also intends to transfer existing transmission 
lines and poles to NPPD. Further, the licensee intends to 
convey easement rights to NPPD for (1) the transmission lines 
and poles to be transferred and (2) drainage facilities, 
cooling water intake, and outlet works adjacent to the 
Canaday Steam Plant. 

l. This notice also consists of the following standard 
paragraphs: B, C2, and D2. 

6a. Type of Application: Preliminary Permit.

b. Project No.: 11488000.

c. Date Filed: June 17, 1994.

d. Applicant: Margaret Jordan.

e. Name of Project: Wynantskill.

f. Location: On Wynantskill Creek in the City of Troy, 
Rensselaer County, New York.

g. Filed Pursuant to: Federal Power Act, 16 U.S.C. 791(a)825(r).

h. Applicant Contact: Ms. Margaret Jordan, 432 Whiteview Rd., Wynantskill, New York 12198, (518) 2835812.

i. FERC Contact: Charles T. Raabe (dt) (202) 2192811.

j. Comment Date: November 7, 1994.

k. Description of Project: The proposed project would consist 
of: (1) an existing 15-foot-high, 200-foot-long concrete 
gravity dam; (2) a reservoir (Burden Pond) with a 7-acre 
surface area and a 50-acre-foot storage capacity at 
spillway crest elevation 177.0 feet MSL; (3) a new concrete 
intake structure at the left abutment; (4) a new 42-inch 
diameter, 2,800-foot-long steel penstock; (5) a new concrete 
and steel powerhouse containing one generating unit with a 
capacity of 255-kW and one generating unit with a capacity of 
475-kW for a total installed capacity of 730-kW; (6) a new 
tailrace; (7) a new switchyard; (8) a new 150-foot-long, 
13.2-kV transmission line; and (9) appurtenant facilities. 
The applicant estimates that the cost of the studies under 
the term of the permit would be $36,000 and that the average 
annual generation would be 2.3 million kilowatt-hours. 
Project power would be sold to Niagara Mohawk Power 
Corporation. The dam is owned by the City of Troy, New York. 

l. This notice also consists of the following standard 
paragraphs: A5, A7, A9, A10, B, C  D2. 

7a. Type of Application: Hydroelectric - New License.

b. Project No.: 2535003.




