FT  08 FEB 93 / International Company News: Sales growth slows at Amgen
AMGEN'S share price plunged on Friday after the US biotechnology company
reported slowing sales growth for its pharmaceutical products and analysts
cut estimates for future earnings.
Net profit for the fourth quarter was Dollars 133.8m, or 91 cents per share.
However this included a one-time, pre-tax arbitration award of Dollars 77.1m
 -producing an after-tax gain of about 34 cents per share - over Amgen's
marketing rights dispute with Johnson &amp; Johnson, the US healthcare products
group.
In the same period last year the company reported net profits of Dollars
60m, or 41 cents a share. Fourth quarter sales rose to Dollars 308.2m from
Dollars 210m.
Sales in the quarter of Epogen, Amgen's anti-anaemia drug, were Dollars
135.7m, down slightly from Dollars 136.9m in the third quarter. For the
year, sales increased to Dollars 506.3m, from Dollars 409.4m in 1991. Sales
of Neupogen, which received US marketing approval in February 1991, rose to
Dollars 544.4m in 1992 from Dollars 232.8m in 1991,
Although fourth quarter earnings were in line with expectations, analysts
expressed concern that the sales momentum is slowing, and the company's
share price closed at Dollars 53 7/8 on Friday, down from Thursday's Dollars
59 3/4.
For the year ended December 31, total turnover was Dollars 1.1bn, compared
with Dollars 682m a year earlier. Net profits came to Dollars 357.6m, or
Dollars 2.43 a share, compared with Dollars 97.9m, or 67 cents, which
included a one-time, pre-tax legal assessment of Dollars 129.1m.
