FT  15 FEB 93 / Observer: End of the SABC show
The British Broadcasting Corporation is not the only national broadcaster
seeking new governors at a particularly critical time in its affairs. The
South African Broadcasting Corporation has an even more urgent need since
its board expires next month.
No institution has done more to consolidate the 45-year rule of white
Afrikaners in South Africa than the SABC propaganda machine. Hence, it is
ironic that the ruling National Party has had a deathbed conversion to the
virtues of independent broadcasting -  on the principle, no doubt, that the
African National Congress should be prevented from committing the kinds of
media abuses which were National Party policy for nearly five decades.
Whereas the National Party used to pack the upper echelons of the SABC with
members of the Afrikaner Broederbond, Pretoria now wants a board which
commands 'the widest possible acceptability'. This is much harder than it
sounds because it is hard to remain apolitical in South Africa and the SABC
will be one of the most potent weapons in the forthcoming non-racial
elections.
Non-broadcasters might be the best option. Novelist Nadine Gordimer has been
mentioned, along with the former editor of the now defunct liberal daily,
the Rand Daily Mail, Raymond Louw. But in the meantime, there are suspicions
that the SABC is trying to pre-empt the planned changes by making biased
appointments within the 'black' news and current affairs section. Old habits
die hard.
