FT  23 MAR 93 / Commodities and Agriculture: Tokyo court hears more evidence
on seized coins
AS THE Japanese authorities prepare to issue a gold coin to mark the
forthcoming wedding of Crown Prince Naruhito, there was a reminder yesterday
of the embarrassing fiasco that followed the Hirohito coin issue in 1986.
Lawyers for Mr Paul Davies, a UK coin dealer, were back in court in Tokyo
claiming compensation of Y320m (USDollars 2.7m), plus interest, from the
Japanese government and the Tokyo Metropolitan government for 3,200 Hirohito
coins which he claims were illegally confiscated by Tokyo police in February
1990.
At that time the police claimed the coins were forgeries and said they had
uncovered Japan's largest known counterfeiting case. They alleged that the
coins were part of a consignment of 107,000, then worth USDollars 70m,
suspected of being counterfeits and imported to Japan from the Middle East
through European intermediaries.
Mr Davies, a 41-year-old barrister who set up a coin dealing business in
Ilkley, West Yorkshire, 20 years ago, has always protested his coins were
genuine. No charges have ever been brought against him even though he has
frequently been back to Japan to fight his case. He suggests the Tokyo
police effectively abandoned their investigations in the summer of 1990.
Since he began his civil action a year ago there have been six court
hearings at which written evidence has been presented. At yesterday's
hearing evidence presented by Mr Ernest Newman, former chief metallurgist at
the UK Royal Mint, was critical of a report previously submitted by the
finance ministry's Osaka Mint. Once again Mr Newman insisted that the
confiscated coins were genuine.
The Finance Ministry made a huge profit on the Hirohito coins because they
were priced at Y100,000 each (Pounds 580 at the present exchange rate),
twice the value then of the 30 grams of gold they contained. However, as the
coins were legal tender and the Bank of Japan was obliged to buy them back
at Y100,000 each, there were obvious risks that forgers might try to cash in
on the premium between the gold content and the legal-tender price.
Uncertainties about the Hirohito coins caused the Japanese authorities to
delay by several months the launch of gold coins to commemorate Emperor
Akihito's accession to the throne - more gold was put into the coins and the
number issued was substantially reduced to 2m compared with 10m Hirohitos.
The Finance Ministry says 2m gold coins will also be issued to mark the
Crown Prince's wedding but so far have given no other details.
Meanwhile, Mr Davies expects it will take many more months before the court
rules on his action.
