FT  11 AUG 93 / The Lex Column: UK pharmaceuticals
The outcome of pricing negotiations with the UK government should not by
itself add to the great de-rating of the pharmaceuticals sector. The UK
accounts for only a small proportion of sales for most overseas drugs
companies. Even Glaxo, most exposed of the domestic industry, might view the
2.5 per cent annual price cut demanded by government as a moderate result.
The return on capital of 17 to 21 per cent - after allowing for research and
development expenditure - under the UK formula is better than that achieved
in most other industries. Real returns will look all the more handsome if
inflation remains subdued. The question for the stock market, though, is
whether the rate of return is an adequate compensation for the degree of
risk.
Although the slide in pharmaceutical shares has so far reflected doubts
about the returns which can be earned by drugs companies, investment in
pharmaceuticals is also becoming more risky. Big buyers of healthcare are no
longer prepared to pay high prices for drugs which offer only marginal
improvements over cheaper alternatives. The UK government's own blacklist of
products is a case in point. Sales growth in future is likely to come only
from drugs which are a genuine breakthrough in their field. Whether stock
market investors will be prepared to nurse fewer blockbusting compounds
through research and development at lower overall rates of return is a open
question.
