FT  19 FEB 93 / The Lex Column: Glaxo's trusty tonic
Yesterday's interim figures were just what the doctor ordered for Glaxo's
sickly share price. Sales grew faster than the market expected, albeit
thanks to the old stager Zantac rather than the new generation products. An
overdue explanation of the company's sensible but modest ambitions in
over-the-counter medicines should snuff out speculation of a big acquisition
and rights issue. But that will do nothing to calm the market's fears of
tighter government regulation.
Despite ploughing ever more into research and development, Glaxo is
accumulating cash at the rate of Pounds 200m a year. In the context of total
profits of perhaps Pounds 1.7bn this year, the drag of a Pounds 1.5bn cash
pile is bearable. But sales are expected to grow faster than costs from here
on. Operating margins which are already over 30 per cent will, if anything,
increase. Glaxo will soon have to decide whether to pay higher dividends or
make an acquisition. Embarrassment of riches may leave it open to pressure.
With a stream of innovative new products on the way, Glaxo should be better
placed than most to withstand government brow-beating. Only a fraction of
sales growth in the first half came from price increases. Yet that does not
make Glaxo immune. Drug prices are actually falling in Japan. On a yield
close to the market average, Glaxo looks a relatively safe place to ride out
the uncertainty. But the sector will remain under a cloud until the scope of
President Clinton's crusade against healthcare costs is clear.
