FT  26 APR 93 / The Lex Column: Tough prescriptions
It will take more than comforting profits figures to restore drugs stocks to
a premium rating. With competition increasing and government regulation
tightening, past results are an unreliable guide to future prospects. Yet
respectable first-quarter figures from the likes of Merck and SmithKline
Beecham last week lifted the stricken sector. Friday's correction
notwithstanding, drug company ratings may have hit bottom just below the
market average.
A sustained rally cannot be expected until Mrs Clinton's plans for reform of
US healthcare are clearer. Even then, most drugs stocks will not return to
the heady rating of the 1980s. That was founded on worldwide sales of
pharmaceuticals which, according to Zeneca's pathfinder prospectus, grew at
an annual compound rate of 13 per cent. The price component of that growth -
perhaps 5 percentage points - is unlikely to be repeated. Regardless of US
reforms, buyers of healthcare are getting tough. Following government
intervention, drug prices are falling in Japan and Germany. Margins will be
squeezed even if volume growth is maintained.
The industry can cut costs, especially in sales and marketing. But that will
only run so far. Profit margins of 30 per cent, after research and
development expenditure, look unsustainable. If volume growth can match the
1980s, drug company prospects might still look better than the market
average - but only for those which develop innovative new drugs. The best in
the sector may return to a premium rating. Robbed of the ability to hide
behind price increases, the rest may never make a full recovery.
