FT  19 OCT 93 / Letters to the Editor: Absurdity of red tape in education
Sir, Thank you for your editorial, 'Cutting red tape' (October 11).
Ministers, as you say, find this a splendid subject for rhetoric; but have
shown little skill in distinguishing necessary regulation from unnecessary
form-filling.
The situation in education, from universities to primary schools, is the
most absurd. In the name of 'marketisation', more and more information is
being required from teachers; more forms to fill, more outside inquiries,
more lengthy sets of regulations (altered by each new minister every 18
months or so) to be read and implemented. The national curriculum has been
subjected to endless, often seemingly arbitrary, changes, each requiring new
handbooks and standards. The amount of information demanded from
universities - on the details of research output, teaching methods,
utilisation of resources - must now be far higher than the regulatory system
has the capacity to absorb: an outcome worthy of a socialist system in
decline. Right-wing prejudice against the teaching profession - there can be
no other explanation - has carried free-marketeers to the opposite extreme.
I recall many years ago that Marks and Spencer swept away many of its
internal stock-checks and paper-filling, made it clear that it trusted its
staff, and gained an impressive net saving. A rational government would come
to the same conclusion about the proliferation of paper in the education
field. There is sadly little evidence of rational educational policy-making
within the present government, however.
William Wallace,
St Antony's College,
Oxford OX2 6JF
