FT  22 NOV 93 / The Lex Column: Metals
The launch of Mercury Asset Management's mining trust this week will provide
investors with a useful diversity of risk. RTZ stands alone among top-notch
UK mining companies, and the trust will invest worldwide. Whether it is
worthwhile digging deep to invest in mining shares at this stage of the
cycle is less clear. Base metals prices are at historic lows in real terms -
aluminium has fallen by two thirds from the peak in 1989 - so it is tempting
to call the turn. Demand should improve through 1994 as economies pull out
of recession. The snag is that high stocks and cheap exports, notably from
the Commonwealth of Independent States, leave metals markets with plenty of
slack.
Past experience suggests stocks in aluminium and nickel will have to halve
before prices show real recovery. Stock levels will only fall slowly unless
production is cut back. There are some signs of action on that front. US
aluminium producers have cut 700,000 tonnes capacity in the last 16 months.
Yet exports from the CIS have risen twice that amount since prices started
to slide. Russian aluminium smelters and nickel producers will be unwilling
to turn off the tap. While most big tin producers recently agreed to
restrict exports, it is not clear China will do so. There is always a chance
that demand within Russia will revive and soak up more local production. But
that cannot be taken for granted. While the slide in metals prices leaves
scope for dramatic improvement, the timing of recovery looks anything but
copper-bottomed.
