FT  14 NOV 94 / The Lex Column: Astra
Despite worldwide constraints on healthcare spending, there is still a
bright future for pharmaceuticals companies with productive research and
development. Astra, the Swedish drugs group, demonstrated as much last week.
While most drugs groups are struggling to grow, Astra posted a 24 per cent
increase in earnings for the first nine months of the year. More is yet to
come. Astra should benefit from regaining control of distribution channels
for its medicines in the US and Japan. This month's Dollars 820m marketing
joint-venture with Merck will help it boost US sales of ulcer drug Losec,
its top-selling product. The medicine accounts for only 19 per cent of the
US ulcer market, where Glaxo's rival Zantac drug still has a clear lead,
compared with 40 per cent in the UK. Astra's sales will be further enhanced
when its second most important product, asthma drug Pulmicort, is approved
in the US.
Astra's shares are on a prospective p/e price earnings for 1995 of 14 - only
a slight premium to US drugs stocks. Yet analysts expect Astra to increase
earnings by nearly 20 per cent a year over the next five years. That
compares with not much over 10 per cent expected from the US pharmaceuticals
sector. There are two technical reasons why the group's market rating does
not reflect its fundamental value: Swedish institutions have been forced
sellers because of rules limiting their dependence on one stock; and US
investors have been put off by the lack of a US listing. With a New York
quote planned for early next year and the added interest in Swedish markets
from the country's EU membership, the shares should rise.
