FT  21 NOV 94 / Quebec shelves power project
Quebec has shelved its controversial CDollars 13bn (Pounds 5.8bn) Great
Whale hydro-electric project indefinitely. 'Great Whale is on ice for a good
long while and we don't need it now,' said Quebec's premier Jacques
Parizeau, whose separatist Parti Quebecois government won the September 12
provincial election. He promised a new review of Quebec's energy needs. The
decision on the 3,100MW project was welcomed by environmentalists and by the
Quebec Cree Indian leader, Mr Matthew Coon Crome. The Great Whale river,
running into Hudson Bay and its huge watershed, would have been dammed. A
big area in the ancestral lands claimed by the Cree, who have fought the
project since 1985, would have been flooded.
Labour and business groups warned of job losses, saying they would soon
lobby again in support of the project. Great Whale, 700 miles north of
Montreal, was to have followed the James Bay hydro development just south of
it. James Bay, now being completed, adds about 13,000MW to Quebec's power
capacity for CDollars 20bn. Quebec, Canada's second biggest province, has
total generating capacity of more than 30,000MW - almost all hydro. The
Great Whale project received a heavy blow in 1992, when New York state
cancelled 20-year supply options worth at least CDollars 17bn. Quebec could
not finance Great Whale without guaranteed exports to underwrite
international bond issues. Also, the slow economic growth in the
north-eastern US and in eastern Canada has reduced the need for more power
capacity.
