FT  07 JUN 94 / Papers prosper in electronic era
Newspapers continue to thrive across Europe despite increased competition
from the electronic media, according to Pira International, the printing
industry research organisation*. Its report shows that, overall, newspapers
maintained the largest share of advertising revenue in western Europe and
generated total revenues in 1992 (the last year when figures are available)
of Dollars 38bn (Pounds 25bn). 'Television has expanded the amount of time
people spend consuming media. It has not transferred that time from
newspapers,' the report concludes. During 1992 more than 92m newspapers were
bought every day in the European Union and European Free Trade Association.
In Austria, daily newspaper sales rose by 14.6 per cent between 1988 and
1992, reflecting the launch of a new national newspaper. During the same
period, however, sales of Greek dailies fell by 34.7 per cent, mainly, it is
believed, because publishers tried to raise cover prices too high.
The two biggest markets by far in western Europe are Germany where 26m
copies are sold every day, followed by the UK with 20.7m. France is third
with 8.8m. Most investments in eastern Europe by western publishers have
been in Poland, the Czech Republic and Hungary but the first moves into
Bulgaria and Romania are expected this year. The largest newspaper publisher
in Europe measured by newspaper sales is Germany's Axel Springer, followed
by Mr Rupert Murdoch's News International and the private German group
Holtzbrinck. * European Newspaper Industry, Pira International, Randalls
Road, Leatherhead, Surrey, UK 0372/376161. Pounds 450.
