FT  18 AUG 94 / Economic Watch: Spain's current account boost
A boom year on Spanish beaches has already made a significant impact on the
country's balance of payments for the first half of the year, with a 33 per
cent reduction in the current account deficit compared with the same period
last year. Bank of Spain figures yesterday showed a current account
shortfall of Pta532bn (Pounds 2.6bn) for the six months against Pta791bn at
the same stage a year ago. The deficit in June was 21 per cent down at
Pta138bn, with the traditional surplus in services boosted by 76 per cent to
Pta199bn. The services surplus over the six-month period was 47 per cent
higher at Pta726bn. Net tourism receipts of Pta960bn were 30 per cent up
since last year. Spain's merchandise trade deficit, meanwhile, was 10 per
cent lower in the first half at Pta820bn, according to the bank's figures.
Portugal's balance of payments deficit on current account rose to Es145.9bn
(Pounds 590m) in the first five months of this year compared with Es107.2bn
in the same period last year, the Bank of Portugal said.
Poland's unadjusted industrial output fell 3.4 per cent in July, but was
16.7 per cent higher than in July 1993, according to the central statistical
office.
Unemployment in the Netherlands rose on an unadjusted basis to an average of
465,000 in May-July from 461,000 in April-June, the central bureau of
statistics said.
The Danish national statistics agency reported the trade surplus in April
fell to DKr2.12bn (Pounds 223m) on an unadjusted basis from DKr3.382bn a
year earlier. The April trade balance also showed a decline from March this
year, when the balance stood at DKr3.031bn.
