FT  26 NOV 94 / Indian police kill seven
Police shot dead seven people and injured 100 yesterday when they opened
fire on a crowd of students in Kannur district, in the southern Indian state
of Kerala.
Police said they fired at the crowd after protesters attacked the car of a
visiting state minister during a demonstration by the youth and student
wings of the Communist Party of India - part of widespread action against
the state government's education policy.
It was the third consecutive day in which police have resorted to violence
to quell demonstrations, in unrelated incidents in different parts of the
country.
At least 120 people died in a stampede in Nagpur, Maharashtra state, on
Wednesday after police used batons on a group of tribal demonstrators to
stop them breaking through a cordon around the state legislature. On
Thursday at least two people were killed in the eastern sector of New Delhi,
the capital, when police opened fire on a mob they said stoned a squad of
the Delhi Development Authority as it attempted to demolish an unauthorised
construction.
Maoist guerrillas in the southern state of Andhra Pradesh kidnapped a
relative of prime minister P V Narasimha Rao ahead of an election rally the
Indian leader was set to address yesterday, police said, Reuter reports from
Warangal.
They said guerrillas of the Praja Pratighatna group, a breakaway faction of
the main Maoist People's War Group, were demanding a Rs1m (Pounds 20,400)
ransom for the brother of Mr Rao's son-in-law. The Maoists defied a
paramilitary crackdown on Thursday to lead a strike against what they say
will be fraudulent state assembly elections on December 5.
