FT  19 OCT 94 / International Company News: Genentech advances 116% to
Dollars 33.6m
Genentech, the US bio-technology company, bucked the trend of bad news from
its sector with a 116 per cent rise in net income in the third quarter to
Dollars 33.6m, or 28 cents a share. The company attributed much of the
growth to its latest product, Pulmozyne, which treats cystic fibrosis.
On Monday, shares in two smaller biotech companies, Gensia Pharmaceuticals
and ProCyte, more than halved on the news that new products had failed in
clinical trials. However, Mr Kirk Raab, chairman, said: 'Important clinical
development progress during the quarter should help us maintain our rate of
growth.'
The company said sales of Pulmozyne, in its third quarter on the market, had
been Dollars 21m compared with Dollars 18.7m in the second quarter. The drug
was launched in France and Germany in the quarter, and sells in 18
countries.
Sales of Activase, used to dissolve blood clots, were Dollars 65.1m against
Dollars 63.5m. However, sales of Genentech's two human growth hormone
products, Protropin and Nutropin, were down to Dollars 54.6m from Dollars
55.4m.
Group revenues in the quarter were Dollars 193.8m, an increase of 17 per
cent. Research and development expenditure was Dollars 73.2m, against
Dollars 72.3m, or 38 per cent of revenue.
Genentech said it did not expect government investigations into its past
marketing methods would 'materially impact' the company. The shares fell
Dollars  1/8 to close at Dollars 51 1/8.
