FT  11 AUG 94 / World Trade News: TNT and Ansett agree to pay record fines
for price-fixing
Two of Australia's largest transport firms, TNT and its related company,
Ansett Transport Industries, were yesterday ordered to pay record fines
totalling AusDollars 5m (USDollars 3.6m) for price-fixing and collusion in
the air freight business.
The fines, AusDollars 4.1m for TNT and Dollars 900,000 for Ansett, were the
highest so far for anti-competitive business practices in Australia. The
previous highest penalty in a trade practices case was AusDollars 250,000.
The highest possible penalty for a corporation under the Trade Practices Act
is AusDollars 10m.
The case was brought against the companies in 1992 by the Trade Practices
Commission, the competition watchdog, alleging that the companies had agreed
to charge uniform prices for air freight services and not to poach each
other's customers.
The commission also alleged the companies deliberately tried to drive new
customers back to their original service provider by putting up prices or
deliberately providing a poor service. A case was also brought against Mayne
Nickless, another major transport group, as well as a number of other
individuals.
TNT and Ansett withdrew their defences against the case two weeks ago,
citing 'purely commercial reasons' but they did not accept guilt or
liability. They have also now agreed to pay the fines plus costs of more
than AusDollars 1m.
Mr Fred Miller, TNT chairman, said the company withdrew because of the
horrendous legal costs, which would have left TNT paying AusDollars 17m.
