FT  21 DEC 94 / The Lex Column: De La Rue/Portals
Portals' shareholders may be disappointed its board failed to fight; a
contested takeover would probably have raised the final price paid by De La
Rue. But in an industry where customers are governments, and discretion is a
byword, the damage wreaked on both businesses during a hostile bid could
have been significant. Shareholders are being offered a fair price for a
fair business.
The rationale for combining De La Rue's printing expertise and Portals'
paper technology is impeccable. Governments are increasingly concerned about
counterfeit banknotes. De La Rue will be able to marry the two groups'
anti-fraud technologies, offering worried customers a comprehensive service.
Portals' paper distribution network will also help De La Rue market its high
denomination, high-margin banknotes to governments which are unwilling to
invest in expensive technology for low volume print runs. Finally, De La Rue
will be able to market verifying machines based on paper technology to
clearers and central banks.
Fears that De La Rue is deepening its exposure to paper money when a
cashless society is on the horizon are groundless. Use of cash is set to
expand rapidly in the developing world, while a cashless first world will
remain a pipe-dream in the foreseeable future. Nevertheless, concerns
remain. De La Rue needs to allay fears that competing bank note
manufacturers will be unwilling to buy paper from its new subsidiary. Given
few opportunities for cost cutting, the group will also have to demonstrate
the synergies of putting the companies together are real. The acquisition is
sensible if not sensational.
