FT  01 JUN 94 / Arts: Stately venues give Belgian festival style - Theatre
When a city gives a festival, part of the festival's fun lies in the variety
of venues in which the events occur. The new Brussels Kunsten Festival des
Arts - a bilingual name for this Franco-Flemish city - is splendidly endowed
in this respect: old proscenium-arch theatres, vast modern halls, derelict
churches and studios.
Of the 12 performances I caught there, I was even grateful for the worst -
Une Chose Intime, a coy little before-and-after conversation about
male-female sexual intimacy, performed by ASBL Transquinquennal (Belgian) -
because it occurred on the second floor of an empty old house in the city
centre.
The Kunsten Festival has won an important place on the theatrical map
because it includes so broad a range of world theatre. The emphasis is on
modernist and post-modernist drama and theatrical style: this is not a
festival for the conventional well-made narrative play with a clear
beginning, middle and end. I saw plays from Poland, Romania, France, Italy,
Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium, and felt my horizons widened by several
of them.
One interesting theme that emerged was the plays of Pier Paolo Pasolini. I
have already reported on the Compagnie Nordey's performance of his Pylade;
later in May, I caught Turin's Teatro Stabile performing his Calderon and
Affabulazione. The Pasolini that emerges from these is an arresting creator
of theatrical political dialectic, neither without pretentiousness nor
wrecked by it. Both make the political maximum out of basic family
relationships.
In Calderon Pasolini turns the daughter-lover-father nexus of certain
Calderon plays - where the father is the traditional tyrant prohibiting
rebellious young love - into a portrayal of the deadening force of fascism
intruding unfeelingly to wreck young lives. Affabulazione is a full-throttle
study of the mid-life crisis of a father who cannot allow his son to enter
adult responsibility. Oedipal tensions abound. A certain homoeroticism
enters into both plays; male beauty and phallic power were themes that
Pasolini could probably never bypass. But the domestic dimensions of fascism
 -so important to the Italian mind, so strange to the British - become both
ironic and serious.
The Teatro Stabile performs the plays, as directed by Luca Ronconi, with
extreme elegance, stylised but modern. There is an awareness that one is
watching and hearing highly trained actors, whose command of stance,
gesture, phrasing, vocal tone is grandly and subtly judged. Not
old-fashioned ham, but rigorous, imaginative austerity. And this style, so
far from Stanislavskian realism, is the right one for Pasolini's dialectic.
Handsome stagings, holding the attention at all points.
The nearest to realism was the Theatregroep Hollandia, who presented in
different off-beat venues Marguerite Duras' La Musica Deuxieme and
Wedekind's (five-hour) Lulu. This company of marvellous Dutch actors brought
a far more compelling emotional tension to Duras' portrait of a heartbroken
divorcing couple than Harriet Walter and Larry Lamb were able to achieve in
Joseph Blatchley's 1983 Hampstead staging. (The French text, with its
untranslatable and long-delayed shift from vous to tu, helps.)
And in Lulu, though the actors spoke in Dutch without surtitles or other
translation device, and even though Lulu herself was no Louise Brooks, they
communicated vividly and kept the action pithy.
These were highlights, as the German Volksbuhne and the French Compagnie
Nordey had been at the festival's start. I also admired the Romanian Teatrul
National of Craiova in Phaedra (part Euripides, part Seneca), a bold staging
which has been seen in Glasgow. Its use of chorus and soloists is
imaginative, modern and classic; and the actors make Romanian sound one of
the most beautiful of languages.
I admired the Polish actors from the Stary Teatr Krakow in the first two
acts of Kalkwerk, but could not face another act of sub-Woyzeck gloom. As
for the Belgian groups Dito Dito and ASBL Transquinquennal, they were solely
of local interest.
The Kunsten Festival des Arts continues until June 5.
