FT  01 SEP 94 / Terms set out for tenders on Channel link
The four private consortia bidding to build the Channel Tunnel rail link
must submit plans to build stations at both Ebbsfleet in Kent and Stratford
in east London, Dr Brian Mawhinney, the transport secretary, announced
yesterday.
Ebbsfleet will definitely be the site for an international and domestic
station, while a decision will be taken later on Stratford. Tenderers have
been asked to submit plans for both an international and a domestic station
there.
Proposals to build a station at Rainham in Essex have now been abandoned.
A government decision on intermediate stations for the link was originally
scheduled for May.
The consortia must lodge their tenders with the government by March 14 next
year. These must include the size and timing of the support required from
the government - total costs of the project are estimated at Pounds 2.7bn -
and an allocation of risk between the government and the private sector. Dr
Mawhinney said a bill authorising construction of the link would be ready in
November.
The winning consortium will design, build, finance and operate the link
through European Passenger Services, the company responsible for
international passenger train services using the Channel tunnel, and take
over Union Railways, the British Rail company which has developed the link
project.
The four groups invited to tender are: Eurorail CTRL (BICC, GEC, HSBC
Holdings, National Westminster Bank, Seeboard, Trafalgar House); a
consortium of Hochtief, Costain, Nishimatsu and Siemens; London and
Continental (Arup, Bechtel, Blue Circle, Halcrow, National Express, Virgin,
Warburg); and Union Link (AEG, WS Atkins, Holzmann, Mowlem, Spie
Batignolles, Taylor Woodrow).
