FT  07 SEP 94 / Syria warns Israel over Golan
Syria warned Israel yesterday that it was a waste of time to talk about a
partial withdrawal from the occupied Golan Heights, and said no Middle East
peace agreement would last unless it was fair, balanced and comprehensive.
Mr Farouq al-Shara, Syrian foreign minister, on an official visit to London,
accused Israel of trying to gain as much as possible from the negotiations,
while seeking to deny Arab aspirations. 'Such an unbalanced solution would
not survive. It would be a truce, not a lasting peace,' he said. Total
Israeli withdrawal from the Golan area had to precede the normalisation of
relations, he insisted. 'You cannot have normal relations while your land is
still occupied.'
Israel has demanded Syria provide evidence of its pledge to establish full
diplomatic relations before it would indicate how much of the Golan it was
willing to withdraw from. But Mr Shara warned that the longer it took Israel
to pull out of the Golan, the longer would be the delay in establishing
normal relations.
He hit out at Mr Yassir Arafat, Palestine Liberation Organisation chairman,
and King Hussein of Jordan for 'killing' the joint Arab approach to peace
negotiations by signing separate agreements with Israel. 'King Hussein
participated in killing the Arab co-ordination, but it was Arafat's Oslo
agreement which made him do it,' Mr Shara said. Unless the West wanted a
resumption of the civil war in Beirut there was no question of Lebanon
signing a separate deal with Israel.
During talks with Mr Douglas Hurd, UK foreign secretary, Mr Shara appealed
for an end to the European Union's arms embargo against Syria and for a more
active European role in the peace process. Syria was still optimistic about
an eventual agreement, he added.
