INCIDENT OR PATTERN? 
If the altercation last Saturday night between two black activists and two 
white Long Beach police officers had run true to form, it would have attracted 
little attention and would have produced what the experts call a "swearing 
match." The cops, under oath, would have sworn that they pulled over the 
activists' car because it was weaving down Pacific Coast Highway and that one 
of the men threatened them and, while they were restraining him, smashed the 
plate-glass window of a hardware store with his elbow. The activists would have 
sworn that they had broken no traffic law and that, once pulled over, they were 
subjected to a torrent of profanity and excessive physical force that ended 
with the arresting officer's pushing one of them through the plate-glass 
window. More likely than not, a trial court would have accepted the police 
version. 
What changed this scenario, of course, was the videotape that NBC made of the 
whole incident with a hidden camera and a microphone. The edited tape, played 
and replayed in the last few days, strongly suggests that the version of events 
related by activists Don Jackson and Jeff Hill, both off-duty law-enforcement 
officers themselves, is closer to the truth than what the Long Beach policemen 
told their superiors in their formal report. The car was not weaving down the 
highway; the expletives came not from Jackson, who was booked for -- among 
other things -- suspicion of using offensive language, but from Officer Mark 
Dickey; it was Dickey who shoved Jackson's head and arm through the window, 
then lied about it. 
Jackson, a sergeant on administrative leave from the Hawthorne Police 
Department, has been criticized in some quarters for setting up this sting and 
for purposefully provoking an overreaction from the arresting officers by 
getting out of the car. Perhaps he was sassier than most citizens would 
consider prudent. But, whether or not the current investigations find that he 
was provocative, Jackson should be credited with turning the spotlight on a 
longstanding unresolved dispute that embroils many cities: Do predominantly 
white police departments routinely detain blacks without cause, harass them and 
use excessive force? 
Jackson and Hill, leaders of the Police Misconduct Lawyer Referral Service, an 
organization dedicated to exposing racial discrimination in law-enforcement 
agencies, insist that the videotape proves their point. The roust on Pacific 
Coast Highway was "consistent with a pattern of abuse and excessive force" by 
the Long Beach force, says Jackson, citing dozens of citizen complaints from 
Long Beach blacks. 
Maybe he is right; certainly many blacks share his perception, sometimes 
reinforced by personal experience, of racism among the police. But the 
videotape doesn't tell the whole tale. It doesn't explain why the Long Beach 
officers stopped that car last Saturday night, it doesn't prove whether Officer 
Dickey genuinely felt menaced by Jackson, it doesn't determine whether there 
was "lawful necessity" for the force that Dickey used, and it emphatically does 
not establish a pattern of racism in Long Beach or anywhere else. 
Those are all issues, particularly the question of whether it was an isolated 
incident or part of a pattern, that should be investigated by the Los Angeles 
district attorney's office and the FBI. We would urge that all parties 
cooperate with these inquiries -- including NBC, which so far has balked at 
releasing a full, unedited videotape. That is the only way, as Long Beach Mayor 
Ernie Kell said so forcefully Tuesday, "to find out what happened here and make 
sure it never happens again." 
