DEATH OF THE AYATOLLAH; 
KHAMENEI: A PRAGMATIST 
President Ali Khamenei, 49, named new leader of Iran after the death of the 
Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini . . . has played key role in Islamic revolution . . 
. but lacks strong power base and may not have religious rank or political 
clout to permanently succeed the ayatollah . . . soft-spoken cleric retains 
wide popularity and has close ties with regular army . . . now aligned with 
one-time rival, Parliament Speaker Hashemi Rafsanjani, both considered 
pragmatists . . . supports Rafsanjani's efforts to renew ties with West to end 
Iran's isolation and help country's reconstruction after Iran-Iraq War . . . 
spent three years in prison or internal exile under late Shah Mohammed Reza 
Pahlavi for revolutionary activities . . . rarely indulges in the fiery 
rhetoric of other Iranian leaders . . . was elected Iran's third president in 
1981 . . . chairs Supreme Defense Council, which devised Iranian strategy 
during eight-year war with Iraq . . . member of most of key councils and 
assemblies in Iran . . . was a member of Revolutionary Council, which governed 
Iran in early days of the revolution . . . had been Friday Prayer leader in 
Tehran, a key political platform . . . his political power base was badly 
eroded in 1987 when Khomeini disbanded Islamic Republic Party, main clerical 
group Khamenei headed . . . was seriously wounded -- and still walks with a 
cane -- by bomb blast in Tehran mosque in 1981 . . . born into religious family 
in northeastern city of Mashhad, hotbed of revolutionary fervor during struggle 
against shah . . . studied under Khomeini in the early 1960s . . . often called 
"poet president" because of his passion for literature . . . has written 
several books and translated others . . . married, with several children. 
