TWENTY MINUTES IN THE TOWER 
John Wayne Airport is the fifth-busiest airport in the United States, with 
1,200 to 2,000 daily takeoffs and landings. This illustration shows how many 
planes one controller handled on its main runway during a recent weekday 
afternoon. In a bit more than 20 minutes, 24 planes and two helicopters were 
directed in and out of the airport. Traffic during this period was described as 
moderate. Pilots contacting the tower still refer to it as Orange County, 
although the name of the airport was officially changed to John Wayne Airport 
in 1979. 
While American Airlines 1529 is on final approach over the San Diego Freeway, 
Cessna 47K is 5 miles inbound from the northeast. The pilot radios: "Orange 
County tower, this is Cessna Four-Seen-Kilo requesting clearance to land on 
runway one-niner-right." The controller responds: "Cessna Four-Seven-Kilo 
cleared to land on runway one-niner-right. Watch for departing traffic, a Piper 
Malibu." The pilot responds, "Roger, cleared to land on runway one-niner-right. 
Have traffic in sight. Four-seven-kilo." On the ground, American Airlines 214 
and America West 65 await clearance for takeoff. American 214 is delayed, an 
the tower instructs America West 65 to taxi ahead of it. 
After America West 65 takes off, the tower contacts American 214: "American 
214, taxi across runway one-niner-left. Hold short at runway one-niner-right." 
Te pilot responds and taxis the plane across the nearest runway. He stops 
before crossing runway 19R, the main runway, and awaits clearance for takeoff. 
Cessna 603G and Cherokee 4MA contact ground control for permission to head 
toward the taxi strip. Cessna 603G is directed to a strip on the opposite side 
of the field. Cherokee 4MA is sent to an intersection farther down the runway, 
away from the freeway. Both planes are cleared for takeoff ahead of American 
214. 
American 214 moves into position on Runway 19R. The tower radios: "American 
214, cleared for takeoff." The pilot responds: "Roger, American 214 cleared for 
takeoff, have a good day," and starts down the runway. Cessna 52S, taxiing up 
for departure, contacts the tower. The tower responds: "Cessna 52 Sierra, cross 
runway one-niner-left, hold short at runway one-niner-right." The pilot 
responds: "Roger, cross runway one-niner-left. Hold short at runway 
one-niner-right. Five-two Sierra." Delta 1891 is inbound 5 miles north, 
followed by USAir 2494 at 7 miles north. On the taxi strip, Beech Bonanza 5JW 
awaits clearance for takeoff. 
After Beech Bonanza 5JW takes off, Delta 1891 lands. Cessna 293 taxis up the 
strip. The tower radios: "Cessna two-niner-three, cross runway one-niner-left. 
Hold short on runway one-niner right." The pilot responds, "Roger, cross 
one-niner-left. Hold short one one-niner-right. Two-niner-three."He taxis the 
plane to runway 19R and waits for clearance to take off. USAir 2494 is on final 
approach ad Beech Baron 01Y is seven miles to the north. USAir 2990 is 10 miles 
southwest. 
USAir 2990, cleared for landing, is on final approach. Cessna 364 calls in over 
Tustin. The tower responds: "Cessna three-six-four cleared for landing on 
runway one-niner-right. Watch for jet turbulence from a seven-thirty-seven." 
The pilot responds: "Roger, Orange County Tower, Cessna three-six-four cleared 
to land on one-niner-right. Good day." As Bonanza 07Q lands, Skywest 446 
appears on the controller's radar screen 8 miles to the north. Continental 1764 
and Aerostar 95X wait for clearance to take off. 
USAir 2494 lands. Continental 1764 pulls away from the gate and taxis up for 
departure. Cherokee 04F taxis toward the runway on the opposite side of the 
field. Eagle, the Costa Mesa Police helicopter, contacts the tower: "Orange 
County Tower, this is Eagle. We're conducting surveillance over the city two 
miles southwest." The tower radios back: "Roger, Eagle, have you in sight." 
USAir 2601 pulls away from the gate and heads towards the taxi strip. Skywest 
446, now 5 miles to the north, contacts the tower. The tower radios. "Skywest 
446, cleared to land on runway one-niner-right." The pilot responds: "Roger, 
Orange County Tower, Skywest four-four-six, cleared to land on 
one-niner-right." Turbo Commander 9WC is 10 miles north. 
Beech Bonanza 07Q reports in from 5 miles north. Eagle contacts the tower again 
to inform the controller it is inbound for landing. The tower responds: "Roger, 
Eagle cleared to land at the heliport." Aerostar 95X taxis up for departure. 
The controller radios Cessna 293 waiting on Runway 19R: "Cessna two-niner-three 
clear for takeoff. Watch for helicopter traffic at 12 o'clock." The pilot 
responds: "Roger Orange County Tower, Cessna two-niner-three cleared for 
takeoff on runway one-niner right. Have helicopter in sight." Cherokee 04F 
taxis up the strip, followed by Citabria 09V. Cessna 35Vis inbound from 6 miles 
southwest. 
Aerostar 95X takes off. USAir 2601, holding short on runway 19R, is next in 
line for departure. Helicopter 3SH, approaching from the southwest, contacts 
the tower: "Helicopter Three-Sierra-Hotel inbound for landing." The tower 
reponds: "Helicopter Three-Sierra-Hotel cleared for landing at heliport number 
two." Skywest 446 lands while Turbo Commander 9WC is on final approach. 
Cherokee 364 is cleared for takeoff after USAir 2601 departs. 
Source: John Wayne Airport Janice L. Lones 
